[thunder crashing]
WHEN SHALL WE THREEMEET AGAIN
IN THUNDER, LIGHTNING,OR IN RAIN?
WHEN THE HURLY-BURLY'S DONE,
WHEN THE BATTLE'SLOST AND WON.
THAT WILL BEERE THE SET OF SUN.
WHERE THE PLACE?
UPON THE HEATH.
THERE TO MEETWITH MACBETH.
I COME, GRAYMALKIN.
PADDOCK CALLS.
ANON.
FAIR IS FOUL,AND FOUL IS FAIR.
HOVER THROUGH THE FOGAND FILTHY AIR.
WHAT BLOODY MAN IS THAT?
HE CAN REPORT,AS SEEMETH BY HIS PLIGHT,
OF THE REVOLT THE NEWEST STATE.
THIS ISTHE SERGEANT WHO,
LIKE A GOODAND HARDY SOLDIER,
FOUGHT 'GAINSTMY CAPTIVITY.
HAIL, BRAVE FRIEND.
SAY TO THE KINGTHE KNOWLEDGE OF THE BROIL
AS THOU DIDST LEAVE IT.
[gasping]
DOUBTFUL IT STOOD,
AS TWO SPENT SWIMMERSTHAT DO CLING TOGETHER
AND CHOKE THEIR ART.
A MERCILESS MACDONWALD--WORTHY TO BE A REBEL,
FOR TO THAT THE MULTIPLYINGVILLAINIES OF NATURE
DO SWARM UPON HIM--
FROM THE WESTERN ISLESOF KERNS AND GALLOWGLASSES
IS SUPPLIED.
AND FORTUNE, ON HIS DAMNEDQUARREL SMILING,
SHOWED LIKEA REBEL'S WHORE.
BUT ALL'S TOO WEAK.
FOR BRAVE MACBETH--AND WELLHE DESERVES THAT NAME--
DISDAINING FORTUNE,WITH HIS BRANDISHED STEEL
WHICH SMOKEDWITH BLOODY EXECUTION,
LIKE VALOR'S MINIONCARVED OUT HIS PASSAGE
TILL HE FACED THE SLAVE,
WHICH NE'ER SHOOK HANDSNOR BADE FAREWELL TO HIM
TILL HE UNSEAMED HIMFROM THE NAVE TO THE CHAPS!
[gasps]
AND FIXED HIS HEADUPON OUR BATTLEMENTS.
OH, VALIANT COUSIN!WORTHY GENTLEMAN!
AS WHENCE THE SUN'GINS HIS REFLECTION
SHIPWRECKING STORMSAND DIREFUL THUNDERS BREAK,
SO FROM THAT SPRINGWHENCE COMFORT SEEMED TO COME
DISCOMFORT SWELLS.
MARK, KING OF SCOTLAND, MARK.
NO SOONER JUSTICE HAD,WITH VALOR ARMED,
COMPELLED THESE SKIPPING KERNSTO TRUST THEIR HEELS,
THAN THE NORWEYAN LORD,SURVEYING VANTAGE,
WITH FURBISHED ARMSAND NEW SUPPLIES OF MEN,
BEGAN A FRESH ASSAULT.
DISMAYED NOT THIS OUR CAPTAINS,MACBETH AND BANQUO?
YES, AS SPARROWS EAGLESOR THE HARE THE LION.
IF I SAY SOOTH, I MUST REPORTTHEY WERE AS CANNONS
OVERCHARGED WITH DOUBLE CRACKS,
SO THEY DOUBLY REDOUBLED STROKESUPON THE FOE.
EXCEPT THEY MEANT TO BATHEIN REEKING WOUNDS
OR MEMORIZE ANOTHER GOLGOTHA,I CANNOT TELL!
[moans]
I AM FAINT.
MY GASHES CRY FOR HELP.
SO WELL THY WORDS BECOME THEEAS THY WOUNDS.
THEY SMACK OF HONOR BOTH.GO GET HIM SURGEONS.
WHO COMES HERE?
THE WORTHY THANEOF ROSS.
WHAT A HASTE LOOKSTHROUGH HIS EYES.
SO SHOULD HE SPEAKTHINGS STRANGE.
GOD SAVE THE KING.
WHENCE CAMEST THOU?
FROM FIFE, GREAT KING,
WHERE THE NORWEYAN BANNERSFLOUT THE SKY
AND FAN OUR PEOPLE COLD.
NORWAY HIMSELF,WITH TERRIBLE NUMBERS,
ASSISTED BYTHAT MOST DISLOYAL TRAITOR,
THE THANE OF CAWDOR,
BEGAN A DISMAL CONFLICT,
TILL THAT BELLONA'S BRIDEGROOM,LAPPED IN PROOF,
CONFRONTED HIMWITH SELF-COMPARISONS,
POINT AGAINSTPOINT REBELLIOUS,
ARM 'GAINST ARM,
CURBING HIS LAVISH SPIRIT.
AND, TO CONCLUDE,THE VICTORY FELL ON US.
GREAT HAPPINESS!
THAT NOW SWENO,THE NORWAYS' KING,
CRAVES COMPOSITION.
NOR WOULD WE DEIGN HIMBURIAL OF HIS MEN
TILL HE DISBURSED,AT SAINT COLME'S INCH,
$10,000 TOOUR GENERAL USE.
NO MORE THAT THANE OF CAWDOR
SHALL DECEIVEOUR BOSOM INTEREST.
GO.  PRONOUNCEHIS PRESENT DEATH,
AND WITH HIS FORMER TITLEGREET MACBETH.
I'LL SEE IT DONE.
WHAT HE HATH LOST,NOBLE MACBETH HATH WON.
WHERE HASTTHOU BEEN, SISTER?
KILLING SWINE.
SISTER, WHERE THOU?
A SAILOR'S WIFE HAD CHESTNUTSIN HER LAP,
AND MOUNCHED, AND MOUNCHED,AND MOUNCHED.
"GIVE ME," QUOTH I.
"AROINT THEE, WITCH!"THE RUMP-FED RONYON CRIES.
HER HUSBAND'S TO ALEPPO GONE,MASTER O' THE TIGER.
BUT IN A SIEVEI'LL THITHER SAIL
AND, LIKE A RATWITHOUT A TAIL,
I'LL DO, I'LL DO,AND I'LL DO.
I'LL GIVE THEE A WIND.
THOU'RT KIND.
AND I ANOTHER.
I MYSELFHAVE ALL THE OTHER,
AND THE VERY PORTS THEY BLOW,
ALL THE QUARTERS THAT THEY KNOWI' THE SHIPMAN'S CARD.
I'LL DRAIN HIM DRY AS HAY.
SLEEP SHALLNEITHER NIGHT NOR DAY
HANG UPON HIS PENTHOUSE LID.
HE SHALL LIVE A MAN FORBID.
WEARY SEV'NNIGHTSNINE TIMES NINE
SHALL HE DWINDLE, PEAK,AND PINE.
THOUGH HIS BARK CANNOT BE LOST,YET IT SHALL BE TEMPEST-TOST.
LOOK WHAT I HAVE.
SHOW ME.
HERE I HAVE A PILOT'S THUMB,
WRECKED AS HOMEWARDHE DID COME.
[drum beating cadence nearby]
A DRUM, A DRUM.
MACBETH DOTH COME.
THE WEIRD SISTERS,HAND IN HAND--
POSTERS OFTHE SEA AND LAND--
THUS DO GOABOUT, ABOUT.
THRICE TO THINE.
AND THRICE TO MINE.
THRICE AGAIN,TO MAKE UP NINE.
PEACE.THE CHARM'S WOUND UP.
SO FOUL AND FAIR A DAYI HAVE NOT SEEN.
HOW FAR IS 'TCALLED TO FORRES?
[yells]
WHAT ARE THESE...
SO WITHERED AND SO WILDIN THEIR ATTIRE,
THAT LOOK NOT LIKETHE INHABITANTS O' THE EARTH
BUT YET ARE ON IT?
LIVE YOU?
[chuckles]
OR ARE YOU AUGHTTHAT MAN MAY QUESTION?
YOU SEEM TO UNDERSTAND ME,BY EACH AT ONCE
HER CHOPPY FINGER LAYINGUPON HER SKINNY LIPS.
[laughs]
YOU SHOULD BE WOMEN,AND YET YOUR BEARDS
FORBID ME TO INTERPRETTHAT YOU ARE SO.
SPEAK, IF YOU CAN.WHAT ARE YOU?
ALL HAIL,MACBETH.
HAIL TO THEE,THANE OF GLAMIS.
(second witch) ALL HAIL, MACBETH.
HAIL TO THEE, THANE OF CAWDOR.
(third witch) ALL HAIL, MACBETH,
THAT SHALT BE KING HEREAFTER.
GOOD SIR,WHY DO YOU START,
AND SEEM TO FEAR THINGSTHAT DO SOUND SO FAIR?
IN THE NAME OF TRUTH,ARE YE FANTASTICAL,
OR THAT INDEEDWHICH OUTWARDLY YE SHOW?
MY NOBLE PARTNERYOU GREET WITH PRESENT GRACE
AND GREAT PREDICTION OF NOBLEHAVING AND OF ROYAL HOPE,
THAT HE SEEMS RAPT WITHAL.
TO ME YOU SPEAK NOT.
IF YOU CAN LOOKINTO THE SEEDS OF TIME
AND SAY WHICH GRAIN WILL GROWAND WHICH WILL NOT,
SPEAK THEN TO ME,
WHO NEITHER BEG NOR FEARYOUR FAVORS NOR YOUR HATE.
HAIL.
LESSER THAN MACBETH,AND GREATER.
NOT SO HAPPY, YET MUCH HAPPIER.
THOU SHALT GET KINGS, THOUGH THOU BE NONE.
SO ALL HAIL, MACBETH AND BANQUO.
BANQUO AND MACBETH,ALL HAIL.
STAY!
YOU IMPERFECT SPEAKERS,TELL ME MORE.
BY SINEL'S DEATH I KNOWI AM THANE OF GLAMIS,BUT HOW OF CAWDOR?
THE THANE OF CAWDOR LIVES,A PROSPEROUS GENTLEMAN,
AND TO BE KINGSTANDS NOT WITHINTHE PROSPECT OF BELIEF,
NO MORE THANTO BE CAWDOR.
SAY FROM WHENCE YOU OWETHIS STRANGE INTELLIGENCE.
OR WHY UPON THIS BLASTED HEATHYOU STOP OUR WAY
WITH SUCHPROPHETIC GREETING.
SPEAK!  SPEAK!I CHARGE YOU!
[thunder rumbling]
THE EARTH HATH BUBBLESAS THE WATER HAS,
AND THESE ARE OF THEM.
WITHER ARE THEY VANISHED?
INTO THE AIR.
AND WHAT SEEMED CORPORAL
MELTED AS BREATHINTO THE WIND.
WOULD THEY HAD STAYED.
WERE SUCH THINGS HEREAS WE DO SPEAK ABOUT?
OR HAVE WE EATENON THE INSANE ROOT
THAT TAKESTHE REASON PRISONER?
YOUR CHILDRENSHALL BE KINGS.
[both laugh]
YOU SHALL BE KING!
AND THANE OF CAWDOR TOO.WENT IT NOT SO?
TO THE SELFSAMETUNE AND WORDS.
[metal clanks]
WHAT'S THAT?
THE KING HATHHAPPILY RECEIVED, MACBETH,
THE NEWS OF THY SUCCESS.
AND WHEN HE READSTHY PERSONAL VENTURE
IN THE REBELS' FIGHT,
HIS WONDERS AND HIS PRAISESDO CONTEND
WHICH SHOULD BE THINE OR HIS.
SILENCED WITH THAT,
IN VIEWING O'ER THE REST O' THE SELFSAME DAY,
HE FINDS THEEIN THE STOUT NORWEYAN RANKS,
NOTHING AFEARD OF WHATTHYSELF DIDST MAKE,
STRANGE IMAGES OF DEATH.
AS THICK AS HAIL CAME POST WITH POST,
AND EVERY ONEDID BEAR THY PRAISES
IN HIS KINGDOM'SGREAT DEFENSE,
AND POURED THEM DOWNBEFORE HIM.
WE ARE SENT TO GIVE THEE,FROM OUR ROYAL MASTER, THANKS,
ONLY TO HERALD THEEINTO HIS SIGHT,
NOT PAY THEE.
AND FOR AN EARNESTOF A GREATER HONOR,
HE BADE ME, FROM HIM,CALL THEE THANE OF CAWDOR.
IN WHICH ADDITION,
HAIL, MOST WORTHY THANE, FOR IT IS THINE.
WHAT, CAN THE DEVILSPEAK TRUE?
THE THANE OF CAWDOR LIVES.
WHY DO YOU DRESS MEIN BORROWED ROBES?
WHO WAS THE THANELIVES YET,
BUT UNDER HEAVY JUDGMENTBEARS THAT LIFE
WHICH HE DESERVES TO LOSE.
WHETHER HE WAS COMBINEDWITH THOSE OF NORWAY,
OR DID LINE THE REBELWITH HIDDEN HELP AND VANTAGE,
OR THAT WITH BOTH
HE LABORED IN HIS COUNTRY'S WRECK,
I KNOW NOT.
BUT TREASONS CAPITAL, CONFESSED AND PROVED,
HAVE OVERTHROWN HIM.
[thinking]GLAMIS, AND THANE OF CAWDOR.
THE GREATEST IS BEHIND.
THANKS FOR YOUR PAINS.
DO YOU NOT HOPE YOUR CHILDRENSHALL BE KINGS,
WHEN THOSE THAT GAVETHE THANE OF CAWDOR TO ME
PROMISED NO LESS TO THEM?
THAT, TRUSTED HOME,
MIGHT YET ENKINDLE YOUUNTO THE CROWN,
BESIDES THE THANEOF CAWDOR.
BUT 'TIS STRANGE.
AND OFTENTIMES,TO WIN US TO OUR HARM,
THE INSTRUMENTS OF DARKNESSTELL US TRUTHS,
WIN US WITHHONEST TRIFLES,
TO BETRAY USIN DEEPEST CONSEQUENCE.
COUSINS,A WORD, I PRAY.
TWO TRUTHS ARE TOLD
AS HAPPY PROLOGUESTO THE SWELLING
OF THE IMPERIAL THEME.
THIS SUPERNATURAL SOLICITINGCANNOT BE ILL...
CANNOT BE GOOD.
IF ILL, WHY HATH IT GIVEN MEEARNEST OF SUCCESS,
COMMENCING IN A TRUTH?
I AM THANE OF CAWDOR.
IF GOOD, WHY DO I YIELDTO THAT SUGGESTION
WHOSE HORRID IMAGE DOTHUNFIX MY HAIR
AND MAKE MY SEATED HEARTKNOCK AT MY RIBS
AGAINST THE USE OF NATURE?
PRESENT FEARS ARE LESSTHAN HORRIBLE IMAGININGS.
MY THOUGHT, WHOSE MURDER YETIS BUT FANTASTICAL,
SHAKES SOMY SINGLE STATE OF MAN
THAT FUNCTION IS SMOTHEREDIN SURMISE,
AND NOTHING ISBUT WHAT IS NOT.
LOOK, HOWOUR PARTNER'S RAPT.
IF CHANCEWILL HAVE ME KING,
WHY, CHANCEMAY CROWN ME,
WITHOUT MY STIR.
NEW HONORS COME UPON HIM,LIKE OUR STRANGE GARMENTS,
CLEAVE NOT TO THEIR MOLDBUT WITH THE AID OF USE.
COME WHAT COME MAY,
TIME AND THE HOUR RUNSTHROUGH THE ROUGHEST DAY.
WORTHY MACBETH,WE STAY UPON YOUR LEISURE.
GIVE ME YOUR FAVOR.
MY DULL BRAIN WAS WROUGHTWITH THINGS FORGOTTEN.
KIND GENTLEMEN,YOUR PAINS ARE REGISTERED
WHERE EVERY DAYI TURN TO LEAFTO READ THEM.
LET USTOWARD THE KING.
THINK UPON WHATHATH CHANCED,
AND AT MORE TIME,THE INTERIM HAVING WEIGHED IT,
LET US SPEAK OUR FREE HEARTSEACH TO OTHER.
VERY GLADLY.
TILL THEN, ENOUGH.
COME, FRIENDS!
IS EXECUTION DONEON CAWDOR?
ARE NOT THOSE IN COMMISSIONYET RETURNED?
(Malcolm)MY LIEGE, THEY ARENOT YET COME BACK.
BUT I HAVE SPOKE WITH ONETHAT SAW HIM DIE,
WHO DID REPORT THAT VERY FRANKLYHE CONFESSED HIS TREASONS,
IMPLORED YOUR HIGHNESS' PARDON,
AND SET FORTHA DEEP REPENTANCE.
NOTHING IN HIS LIFE BECAME HIMLIKE THE LEAVING IT.
HE DIED AS ONE THAT HAD BEENSTUDIED IN HIS DEATH
TO THROW AWAYTHE DEAREST THING HE OW'D
AS 'TWERE A CARELESS TRIFLE.
THERE IS NO ART TO FINDTHE MIND'S CONSTRUCTION
IN THE FACE.
HE WAS A GENTLEMAN ON WHOMI BUILT AN ABSOLUTE TRUST.
O WORTHIEST COUSIN!
THE SIN OF MY INGRATITUDEEVEN NOW WAS HEAVY ON ME.
THOU ART SO FAR BEFORETHAT SWIFTEST WING OF RECOMPENSE
IS SLOW TO OVERTAKE THEE.
WOULD THOU HADST LESS DESERVED,
THAT THE PROPORTIONBOTH OF THANKS AND PAYMENT
MIGHT HAVE BEEN MINE.
ONLY I HAVE LEFTTO SAY,
MORE IS THY DUETHAN MORE THAN ALL CAN PAY.
THE SERVICEAND THE LOYALTY I OWE,
IN DOING IT,PAYS ITSELF.
YOUR HIGHNESS' PARTIS TO RECEIVE OUR DUTIES,
AND OUR DUTIES ARETO YOUR THRONE AND STATE,
CHILDREN AND SERVANTS,
WHICH DOBUT WHAT THEY SHOULD,
BY DOING EVERYTHING SAFETOWARD YOUR LOVE AND HONOR.
WELCOME HITHER.
I HAVE BEGUNTO PLANT THEE,
AND WILL LABORTO MAKE THEE FULL OF GROWING.
NOBLE BANQUO,THAT HAST NO LESS DESERVED,
NOR MUST BE KNOWN NO LESSTO HAVE DONE SO,
LET ME INFOLD THEEAND HOLD THEE TO MY HEART.
THERE IF I GROW,THE HARVEST IS YOUR OWN.
MY PLENTEOUS JOYS,WANTON IN FULLNESS,
SEEK TO HIDE THEMSELVESIN DROPS OF SORROW.
SONS, KINSMEN THANES,
AND YOU WHOSE PLACESARE THE NEAREST, KNOW,
WE WILL ESTABLISH OUR ESTATEUPON OUR ELDEST, MALCOLM,
WHOM WE NAME HEREAFTER THE PRINCE OF CUMBERLAND.
WHICH HONOR MUST NOT UNACCOMPANIED INVEST HIM ONLY,
BUT SIGNS OF NOBLENESS, LIKE STARS,
SHALL SHINE ON ALL DESERVERS.
FROM HENCE TO INVERNESS,
AND BIND USFURTHER TO YOU.
I'LL BE MYSELFTHE HARBINGER,
AND MAKE JOYFULTHE HEARING OF MY WIFE
WITH YOUR APPROACH,
SO HUMBLYTAKE MY LEAVE.
MY WORTHY CAWDOR.
THE PRINCE OF CUMBERLAND.
THAT IS A STEP ON WHICHI MUST FALL DOWN
OR ELSE O'ERLEAP,
FOR IN MY WAY IT LIES.
STARS, HIDE YOUR FIRES,
LET NOT LIGHT SEEMY BLACK AND DEEP DESIRES.
THE EYE WINK AT THE HAND,
YET LET THAT BEWHICH THE EYE FEARS,
WHEN IT IS DONE, TO SEE.
TRUE, WORTHY BANQUO,HE IS FULL SO VALIANT,
AND IN HIS COMMENDATIONI AM FED.
IT IS A BANQUET TO ME.
LET'S AFTER HIM,
WHOSE CARE IS GONE BEFORETO BID US WELCOME.
IT IS A PEERLESS KINSMAN.
"THEY MET MEIN THE DAY OF SUCCESS,
"AND I HAVE LEARNEDBY THE PERFECTEST REPORT
"THEY HAVE MORE IN THEMTHAN MORTAL KNOWLEDGE.
"WHEN I BURNED IN DESIRETO QUESTION THEM FURTHER,
"THEY MADE THEMSELVES AIR,
"INTO WHICH THEY VANISHED.
"WHILES I STOOD RAPTIN THE WONDER OF IT,
"CAME MISSIVESFROM THE KING,
"WHO ALL-HAILED ME THANE OF CAWDOR,
"BY WHICH TITLE, BEFORE,THESE WEIRD SISTERS SALUTED ME,
"AND REFERRED METO THE COMING-ON OF TIME,
"WITH HAIL, KING THAT SHALT BE!
"THIS HAVE I THOUGHTIN GOOD TO DELIVER THEE,
"MY DEAREST PARTNEROF GREATNESS,
"THAT THOU MIGHTST NOT LOSETHE DUES OF REJOICING
"BY BEING IGNORANT
"OF WHAT GREATNESSIS PROMISED THEE.
LAY IT TO THY HEART,AND FAREWELL."
GLAMIS THOU ART,
AND CAWDOR,
AND SHALT BEWHAT THOU ART PROMISED.
YET DO I FEAR THY NATURE.
IT IS TOO FULL O' THE MILKOF HUMAN KINDNESS
TO CATCH THE NEAREST WAY.
THOU WOULDST BE GREAT,ART NOT WITHOUT AMBITION,
BUT WITHOUT THE ILLNESSSHOULD ATTEND IT.
WHAT THOU WOULDST HIGHLY,THAT WOULDST THOU HOLILY--
WOULDST NOT PLAY FALSE,AND YET WOULDST WRONGLY WIN.
THOU'DST HAVE, GREAT GLAMIS,THAT WHICH CRIES,
"THUS THOU MUST DO,IF THOU HAVE IT,
"AND THAT WHICH RATHERTHOU DOST FEAR TO DO
THAN WISHEST SHOULD BE UNDONE."
[sighs]
HIE THEE HITHER,
THAT I MAY POUR MY SPIRITSIN THINE EAR
AND CHASTISE WITH THE VALOROF MY TONGUE
ALL THAT IMPEDES THEEFROM THE GOLDEN ROUND
WHICH FATEAND METAPHYSICAL AID
DOTH SEEMTO HAVE THEE CROWNED WITHAL.
WHAT IS YOUR TIDINGS?
THE KING COMES TONIGHT.
THOU'RT MAD TO SAY IT.
IS NOT THY MASTER WITH HIM,
WHO, WERE 'T SO, WOULD HAVEINFORMED FOR PREPARATION?
SO PLEASE YOU, IT IS TRUE.OUR THANE IS COMING.
ONE OF MY FELLOWSHAD THE SPEED OF HIM,
WHO, ALMOST DEAD FOR BREATH,
HAD SCARCELY MORETHAN WOULD MAKE UP HIS MESSAGE.
GIVE HIM TENDING;HE BRINGS GREAT NEWS.
THE RAVEN HIMSELF IS HOARSE
THAT CROAKS THE FATAL ENTRANCEOF DUNCAN UNDER MY BATTLEMENTS.
COME...
YOU SPIRITS THAT TENDON MORTAL THOUGHTS,
UNSEX ME HERE,
AND FILL ME,FROM THE CROWN TO THE TOE,
TOPFULL OF DIREST CRUELTY.
MAKE THICK MY BLOOD,
STOP UP THE ACCESSAND PASSAGE TO REMORSE,
THAT NO COMPUNCTIOUS VISITINGSOF NATURE SHAKE MY FELL PURPOSE,
NOR KEEP PEACEBETWEEN THE EFFECT AND IT.
COME TO MY WOMAN'S BREASTS,AND TAKE MY MILK FOR GALL,
YOU MURDERING MINISTERS,
WHEREVER IN YOURSIGHTLESS SUBSTANCES
YOU WAITON NATURE'S MISCHIEF.
COME, THICK NIGHT,
AND PALL THEEIN THE DUNNEST SMOKE OF HELL,
THAT MY KEEN KNIFE SEE NOTTHE WOUND IT MAKES,
NOR HEAVEN PEEP THROUGHTHE BLANKET OF THE DARK
TO CRY, "HOLD, HOLD!"
[Lady Macbeth panting]
GREAT GLAMIS.WORTHY CAWDOR.
GREATER THAN BOTH,BY THE ALL-HAIL HEREAFTER.
THY LETTERS HAVE TRANSPORTED MEBEYOND THIS IGNORANT PRESENT,
AND I FEEL NOWTHE FUTURE IN THE INSTANT.
[sighs]
MY...DEAREST...
LOVE.
DUNCAN COMES HERE TONIGHT.
AND WHEN GOES HENCE?
TOMORROW.
AS HE PURPOSES.
OH, NEVER SHALL SUNTHAT MORROW SEE.
YOUR FACE, MY THANE,
IS AS A BOOK WHERE MENMAY READ STRANGE MATTERS.
TO BEGUILE THE TIME,LOOK LIKE THE TIME.
BEAR WELCOME IN YOUR EYE,YOUR HAND, YOUR TONGUE.
LOOK LIKE THE INNOCENT FLOWERBUT BE THE SERPENT UNDER IT.
HE THAT'S COMINGMUST BE PROVIDED FOR.
AND YOU SHALL PUTTHIS NIGHT'S GREAT BUSINESS
INTO MY DISPATCH,WHICH SHALL,
TO ALL OUR NIGHTSAND DAYS TO COME,
GIVE SOLELY SOVEREIGN SWAYAND MASTERDOM.
WE WILL SPEAK FURTHER.
ONLY LOOK UP CLEAR.
TO ALTER FAVOREVER IS TO FEAR.
LEAVE ALL THE RESTTO ME.
[hautboys playing fanfare]
THIS CASTLEHATH A PLEASANT SEAT,
THE AIR NIMBLY AND SWEETLYRECOMMENDS ITSELF
UNTO OUR GENTLE SENSES.
THIS GUEST OF SUMMER,THE TEMPLE-HAUNTING MARTLET,
DOES APPROVEBY HIS LOVED MANSIONRY
THAT THE HEAVEN'S BREATHSMELLS WOOINGLY HERE.
NO JUTTY, FRIEZE,BUTTRESS, NOR COIGN OF VANTAGE
BUT THIS BIRD HATH MADEHER PENDENT BED
AND PROCREANT CRADLE.
WHERE THEYMOST BREED AND HAUNT,
I HAVE OBSERVEDTHE AIR IS DELICATE.
SEE, SEE,OUR HONORED HOSTESS.
THE LOVE THAT FOLLOWS USSOMETIMES IS OUR TROUBLE,
WHICH STILLWE THANK AS LOVE.
HEREIN I TEACH YOU
HOW YOU SHALL BID GOD 'ILD USFOR YOUR PAINS,
AND THANK USFOR YOUR TROUBLE.
ALL OUR SERVICEIN EVERY POINT TWICE DONE,
AND THEN DONE DOUBLE,
WERE POORAND SINGLE BUSINESS
TO CONTEND AGAINSTTHOSE HONORS DEEP AND BROAD
WHEREWITH YOUR MAJESTYLOADS OUR HOUSE.
FOR THOSE OF OLD,
AND THE LATE DIGNITIESHEAPED UP TO THEM,
WE REST YOUR HERMITS.
WHERE'S THE THANEOF CAWDOR?
WE COURSED HIMAT THE HEELS,
AND HAD A PURPOSETO BE HIS PURVEYOR.
BUT HE RIDES WELL,AND HIS GREAT LOVE,
SHARP AS HIS SPUR,
HATH HOLP HIMTO HIS HOME BEFORE US.
FAIR AND NOBLE HOSTESS,WE ARE YOUR GUEST TONIGHT.
GIVE ME YOUR HAND.
CONDUCT ME TO MINE HOST.
WE LOVE HIM HIGHLY
AND SHALL CONTINUEOUR GRACES TOWARDS HIM.
[hautboys playing fanfare]
[all laughing and conversing]
IF IT WERE DONEWHEN 'TIS DONE,
THEN 'TWERE WELLIT WERE DONE QUICKLY.
IF THE ASSASSINATION
COULD TRAMMEL UPTHE CONSEQUENCE,
AND CATCH, WITH HIS SURCEASE,SUCCESS,
THAT BUT THIS BLOW MIGHT BETHE BE-ALL AND THE END-ALL HERE,
BUT HERE, UPON THIS BANKAND SHOAL OF TIME,
WE'D JUMP THE LIFE TO COME.
BUT IN THESE CASESWE STILL HAVE JUDGMENT HERE,
THAT WE BUT TEACHBLOODY INSTRUCTIONS,
WHICH BEING TAUGHT RETURNTO PLAGUE THE INVENTOR.
THIS EVEN-HANDED JUSTICE
COMMENDS THE INGREDIENTSOF OUR POISONED CHALICE
TO OUR OWN LIPS.
HE'S HERE IN DOUBLE TRUST.
FIRST, AS I AM HIS KINSMANAND HIS SUBJECT,
STRONG BOTH AGAINST THE DEED.
THEN, AS HIS HOST,
WHO SHOULD AGAINSTHIS MURDERER SHUT THE DOOR,
NOT BEAR THE KNIFE MYSELF.
BESIDES, THIS DUNCAN HATHBORNE HIS FACULTIES SO MEEK,
HATH BEEN SO CLEARIN HIS GREAT OFFICE,
THAT HIS VIRTUES WILL PLEADLIKE ANGELS TRUMPET-TONGUED
AGAINST THE DEEP DAMNATIONOF HIS TAKING-OFF.
AND PITY,LIKE A NAKED NEWBORN BABE,
STRIDING THE BLAST,
OR HEAVEN'S CHERUBIN,
HORSED UPON THE SIGHTLESSCOURIERS OF THE AIR,
SHALL BLOW THE HORRID DEEDIN EVERY EYE,
THAT TEARS SHALL DROWN THE WIND.
[sighs]
I HAVE NO SPURTO PRICK THE SIDES OF MY INTENT,
ONLY VAULTING AMBITION,WHICH O'ERLEAPS ITSELF
AND FALLS ON THE OTHER--
HOW NOW?  WHAT NEWS?
HE HAS ALMOST SUPPED.
WHY HAVE YOU LEFTTHE CHAMBER?
HATH HE ASKED FOR ME?
KNOW YOU NOT HE HAS?
WE WILL PROCEED NO FURTHERIN THIS BUSINESS.
HE HATH HONORED MEOF LATE,
AND I HAVE BOUGHTGOLDEN OPINIONS
FROM ALL SORTS OF PEOPLE,
WHICH WOULD BE WORN NOWIN THEIR NEWEST GLOSS,
NOT CAST ASIDE SO SOON.
WAS THE HOPE DRUNKWHEREIN YOU DRESSED YOURSELF?
HATH IT SLEPT SINCE?
AND WAKES IT NOW,
TO LOOK SO GREEN AND PALEAT WHAT IT DID SO FREELY?
FROM THIS TIMESUCH I ACCOUNT THY LOVE.
ART THOU AFEARED
TO BE THE SAMEIN THINE OWN ACT AND VALOR
AS THOU ART IN DESIRE?
WOULDST THOU HAVE THATWHICH THOU ESTEEM'ST
THE ORNAMENT OF LIFE
AND LIVE A COWARDIN THINE OWN ESTEEM,
LETTING "I DARE NOT"WAIT UPON "I WOULD,"
LIKE THE POOR CATI' THE ADAGE?
PEACE!
I DARE DO ALLTHAT MAY BECOME A MAN.
WHO DARES DO MORE IS NONE.
WHAT BEAST WAS 'T THEN
THAT MADE YOU BREAKTHIS ENTERPRISE TO ME?
WHEN YOU DURST DO IT,THEN YOU WERE A MAN,
AND TO BE MORETHAN WHAT YOU WERE,
YOU WOULD BESO MUCH MORE THE MAN.
NOR TIME NOR PLACEDID THEN ADHERE,
YET YOU WOULD MAKE BOTH.
THEY HAVE MADE THEMSELVES,
AND THAT, THEIR FITNESS,NOW DOES UNMAKE YOU.
I HAVE GIVEN SUCK,AND KNOW HOW TENDER 'TIS
TO LOVE THE BABETHAT MILKS ME.
I WOULD, WHILE ITWAS SMILING IN MY FACE,
HAVE PLUCKED MY NIPPLEFROM HIS BONELESS GUMS
AND DASHEDTHE BRAINS OUT,
HAD I SO SWORNAS YOU HAVE DONE TO THIS.
IF WE SHOULD FAIL?
WE FAIL.
BUT SCREW YOUR COURAGETO THE STICKING-PLACE
AND WE'LL NOT FAIL.
WHEN DUNCAN IS ASLEEP--
WHERETO THE RATHERSHALL HIS DAY'S HARD JOURNEY
SOUNDLY INVITE HIM--
HIS TWO CHAMBERLAINSWILL I WITH WINE AND WASSAIL
SO CONVINCE
THAT MEMORY,THE WARDER OF THE BRAIN,
SHALL BE A FUME,
AND THE RECEIPT OF REASONA LIMBEC ONLY.
WHEN IN SWINISH SLEEPTHEIR DRENCHED NATURES LIE
AS IN A DEATH,
WHAT CANNOT YOU AND I PERFORMUPON THE UNGUARDED DUNCAN?
WHAT NOT PUT UPONHIS SPONGY OFFICERS,
WHO SHALL BEAR THE GUILTOF OUR GREAT QUELL?
BRING FORTHMEN-CHILDREN ONLY,
FOR THINEUNDAUNTED METTLE
SHOULD COMPOSENOTHING BUT MALES.
WILL IT NOT BE RECEIVED,
WHEN WE HAVE MARKEDWITH BLOOD
THOSE SLEEPY TWOOF HIS OWN CHAMBER
AND USED THEIR VERY DAGGERS,THAT THEY HAVE DONE 'T?
WHO DARESRECEIVE IT OTHER,
AS WE SHALLMAKE OUR GRIEFS
AND CLAMOR ROARUPON HIS DEATH?
I AM SETTLED,
AND BEND UPEACH CORPORAL AGENT
TO THIS TERRIBLE FEAT.
AWAY,
AND MOCK THE TIMEWITH FAIREST SHOW.
FALSE FACE MUST HIDEWHAT THE FALSE HEART DOTH KNOW.
[men pounding table]
HOW GOES THE NIGHT, BOY?
THE MOON IS DOWN.I HAVE NOT HEARD THE CLOCK.
AND SHE GOES DOWNAT 12:00.
I TAKE'T,'TIS LATER, SIR.
HOLD.
TAKE MY SWORD.
THERE'S HUSBANDRYIN HEAVEN.
THEIR CANDLESARE ALL OUT.
TAKE THEE THAT TOO.
A HEAVY SUMMONS LIESLIKE LEAD UPON ME,
AND YET I WOULD NOT SLEEP.
MERCIFUL POWERS, RESTRAIN IN METHE CURSED THOUGHTS
THAT NATURE GIVES WAY TOIN REPOSE.
[faint banging noise]
GIVE ME MY SWORD.
WHO'S THERE?
[laughing]
A FRIEND.
WHAT, SIR,NOT YET AT REST?
THE KING'S ABED.
HE HATH BEENIN UNUSUAL PLEASURE,
AND SENT FORTH GREAT LARGESSTO YOUR OFFICES.
THIS DIAMOND HE GREETSYOUR WIFE WITHAL,
BY THE NAMEOF MOST KIND HOSTESS,
AND SHUT UPIN MEASURELESS CONTENT.
BEING UNPREPARED,
OUR WILL BECAMETHE SERVANT TO DEFECT,
WHICH ELSE SHOULD FREEHAVE WROUGHT.
ALL'S WELL.
I DREAMT LAST NIGHTOF THE THREE WEIRD SISTERS.
TO YOU THEY HAVE SHOWEDSOME TRUTH.
I THINK NOT OF THEM.
YET WHEN WE CAN ENTREATAN HOUR TO SERVE,
WE WOULD SPEND IT
IN SOME WORDSUPON THAT BUSINESS,
IF YOU WOULDGRANT THE TIME.
AT YOUR KIND'ST LEISURE.
IF YOU SHALL CLEAVETO MY CONSENT,
WHEN 'TIS, IT SHALLMAKE HONOR FOR YOU.
SO I LOSE NONEIN SEEKING TO AUGMENT IT,
BUT STILL KEEPMY BOSOM FRANCHISED
AND ALLEGIANCE CLEAR,
I SHALL BE COUNSELED.
GOOD REPOSETHE WHILE.
THANKS, SIR.THE LIKE TO YOU.
GO BID THY MISTRESS,WHEN MY DRINK IS READY,
SHE STRIKE UPON THE BELL.
GET THEE TO BED.
[thunder rumbling]
IS THIS A DAGGERWHICH I SEE BEFORE ME,
THE HANDLE TOWARD MY HAND?
COME,
LET ME CLUTCH THEE.
I HAVE THEE NOT,
AND YETI SEE THEE STILL.
ART THOU NOT, FATAL VISION,SENSIBLE TO FEELING AS TO SIGHT?
OR ART THOU BUT A DAGGEROF THE MIND,
A FALSE CREATION PROCEEDINGFROM THE HEAT-OPPRESSED BRAIN?
I SEE THEE YET,
IN FORM AS PALPABLEAS THIS WHICH NOW I DRAW.
THOU MARSHAL'ST ME THE WAYTHAT I WAS GOING,
AND SUCH AN INSTRUMENTI WAS TO USE.
MINE EYES ARE MADE THE FOOLSO' THE OTHER SENSES,
OR ELSE...
WORTH ALL THE REST.
I SEE THEE STILL,
AND ON MY BLADE AND DUDGEONGOUTS OF BLOOD,
WHICH WAS NOT SO BEFORE.
[gasps]
THERE'S NO SUCH THING.
IT IS THE BLOODY BUSINESSWHICH INFORMS THUS TO MINE EYES.
NOW O'ER THE ONE HALF WORLDNATURE SEEMS DEAD,
AND WICKED DREAMS ABUSETHE CURTAINED SLEEP.
WITCHCRAFT CELEBRATESPALE HECAT'S OFFERINGS,
AND WITHERED MURDER, ALARUMEDBY HIS SENTINEL, THE WOLF,
WHOSE HOWL'S HIS WATCH,
THUS WITH THIS STEALTHY PACE,WITH TARQUIN'S RAVISHING STRIDE,
TOWARD HIS DESIGN MOVESLIKE A GHOST.
THOU SURE AND FIRM-SET EARTH,HEAR NOT MY STEPS,
WHICH WAY THEY WALK,
FOR FEAR THE VERY STONES PRATEOF MY WHEREABOUT;
AND TAKE THE PRESENT HORRORFROM THE TIME,
WHICH NOW SUITS WITH IT.
WHILES I THREAT,HE LIVES.
[bell rings]
I GO, AND IT IS DONE.
THE BELL INVITES ME.
HEAR IT NOT, DUNCAN,
FOR IT IS A KNELLTHAT SUMMONS THEE TO HEAVEN...
OR TO HELL.
[breathing heavily]
THAT WHICH HATH MADE THEM DRUNKHATH MADE ME BOLD.
WHAT HATH QUENCHED THEMHATH GIVEN ME FIRE.
[bird screeches]
HARK!
[gasping]
PEACE.
IT WAS THE OWL THAT SHRIEKED,THE FATAL BELLMAN,
WHICH GIVESTHE STERN'ST GOOD NIGHT.
HE IS ABOUT IT.
THE DOORS ARE OPEN,
MOCK THEIR CHARGE WITH SNORES.
I HAVE DRUGGEDTHEIR POSSETS,
THAT DEATH AND NATUREDO CONTEND ABOUT THEM,
WHETHER THEY LIVE OR DIE.
(man)WHO'S THERE?
ALACK, I AM AFRAID THEYHAVE AWAKED AND 'TIS NOT DONE.
THE ATTEMPT AND NOT THE DEEDCONFOUNDS US.
[bird screeches]
HARK.
I LAID THEIR DAGGERS READY.
HE COULD NOT MISS 'EM.
HAD HE NOT RESEMBLED MY FATHERAS HE SLEPT, I HAD DONE 'T.
MY HUSBAND.
I HAVE DONE THE DEED.
DIDST THOU NOT HEARA NOISE?
I HEARD THE OWL SCREAMAND THE CRICKETS CRY.
DID NOT YOU SPEAK?
WHEN?
NOW.
AS I DESCENDED?
AYE.
[gasps]
WHO LIESI' THE SECOND CHAMBER?
DONALBAIN.
THIS IS A SORRY SIGHT.
FOOLISH THOUGHT,TO SAY A SORRY SIGHT.
THERE'S ONE DID LAUGHIN 'S SLEEP,
AND ONE CRIED, "MURDER!"
THAT THEY DID WAKE EACH OTHER.I STOOD AND HEARD THEM.
BUT THEN THEY DID SAYTHEIR PRAYERS
AND ADDRESS THEM AGAIN TO SLEEP.
THERE ARE TWOLODGED TOGETHER.
ONE CRIED, "GOD BLESS US!"AND, "AMEN," THE OTHER,
AS THEY HAD SEEN MEWITH THESE HANGMAN'S HANDS.
LISTENING THEIR FEAR,I COULD NOT SAY "AMEN"
WHEN THEY DID SAY"GOD BLESS US!"
CONSIDER IT NOT SO DEEPLY.
BUT WHEREFORECOULD I NOT PRONOUNCE "AMEN"?
I HAD MOST NEED OF BLESSING.
"AMEN" STUCK IN MY THROAT.
THESE DEEDS MUST NOTBE THOUGHT AFTER THESE WAYS.
SO IT WILL MAKE US MAD.
METHOUGHT I HEARD A VOICE CRY,"SLEEP NO MORE!
MACBETH DOES MURDER SLEEP!"
THE INNOCENT SLEEP.
SLEEP THAT KNITS UPTHE RAVELED SLEEVE OF CARE,
THE DEATH OF EACH DAY'S LIFE,SORE LABOR'S BATH,
BALM OF HURT MINDS,GREAT NATURE'S SECOND COURSE,
CHIEF NOURISHERIN LIFE'S FEAST.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
STILL IT CRIED,"SLEEP NO MORE!"
TO ALL THE HOUSE.
"GLAMIS HATHMURDERED SLEEP.
"THEREFORE CAWDORSHALL SLEEP NO MORE.
MACBETH SHALL SLEEPNO MORE!"
WHO WAS ITTHAT THUS CRIED?
WHY, WORTHY THANE,
YOU DO UNBENDYOUR NOBLE STRENGTH
TO THINK SO BRAINSICKLYOF THINGS?
GO, GET SOME WATER
AND WASH THIS FILTHY WITNESSFROM YOUR HANDS.
WHY DID YOU BRINGTHESE DAGGERS
FROM THE PLACE?
THEY MUST LIE THERE!
GO, CARRY THEM,
AND SMEAR THE SLEEPY GROOMSWITH BLOOD.
I'LL GO NO MORE.
I AM AFRAID TO THINKWHAT I HAVE DONE.
LOOK ON 'T AGAINI DARE NOT.
INFIRM OF PURPOSE!
GIVE ME THE DAGGERS.
THE SLEEPING AND THE DEADARE BUT AS PICTURES.
'TIS THE EYE OF CHILDHOODTHAT FEARS A PAINTED DEVIL.
IF HE DO BLEED,
I'LL GUILD THE FACESOF THE GROOMS WITHAL,
FOR IT MUST SEEMTHEIR GUILT.
[knocking at door]
WHENCE IS THAT KNOCKING?
HOW IS IT WITH MEWHEN EVERY NOISE APPALS ME?
[shudders]
WHAT HANDS ARE HERE?
HA.  THEY PLUCK OUT MINE EYES.
WILL ALL GREAT NEPTUNE'S OCEAN
WASH THIS BLOOD CLEANFROM MY HAND?
NO.
THIS MY HAND WILL RATHER THEMULTITUDINOUS SEAS INCARNADINE,
MAKING THE GREEN ONE RED.
MY HANDS AREOF YOUR COLOR,
BUT I SHAME TO WEARA HEART SO WHITE!
[knocking]
I HEAR A KNOCKINGAT THE SOUTH ENTRY.
RETIRE WE TO OUR CHAMBER.
A LITTLE WATER CLEARS USOF THIS DEED.
HOW EASY IS IT, THEN.
YOUR CONSTANCYHATH LEFT YOU UNATTENDED.
[knocking]
HARK, MORE KNOCKING.
GET ON YOUR NIGHTGOWN,
LEST OCCASION CALLAND SHOW US TO BE WATCHERS.
BE NOT LOST SO POORLYIN YOUR THOUGHTS.
TO KNOW MY DEED,
'TWERE BESTNOT KNOW MYSELF.
[knocking]
WAKE DUNCANWITH THY KNOCKING!
I WOULD THOU COULDST.
[knocking]
HERE'S A KNOCKIN' INDEED.
IF A MAN WERE PORTEROF HELL GATE,
HE SHOULD HAVEOLD TURNIN' THE KEY.
[knocking]
KNOCK, KNOCK, KNOCK.
WHO'S THERE,I' THE NAME OF BEELZEBUB?
HERE'S A FARMERTHAT HANGED HIMSELF
ON THE EXPECTATION OF PLENTY.
COME IN TIME,
HAVE NAPKINS ENOW ABOUT YOU;HERE YOU'LL SWEAT FOR IT.
[knocking]
KNOCK, KNOCK!
WHO'S THERE,IN TH' OTHER DEVIL'S NAME?
FAITH, HERE'S AN EQUIVOCATOR,
THAT COULD SWEAR IN BOTH THESCALES AGAINST EITHER SCALE,
WHO COMMITTED TREASON ENOUGHFOR GOD'S SAKE,
YET COULD NOT EQUIVOCATETO HEAVEN.
OH, COME IN, EQUIVOCATOR.
KNOCK, KNOCK, KNOCK!
WHO'S THERE?
FAITH, HERE'SAN ENGLISH TAILORCOME HITHER,
FOR STEALING OUTOF A FRENCH HOSE!
OH, COME IN, TAILOR!
HERE YOU MAY ROASTYOUR GOOSE.
KNOCK, KNOCK,NEVER AT QUIET?
WHAT ARE YOU?
THIS PLACEIS TOO COLD FOR HELL.
I'LL DEVIL-PORTER ITNO FURTHER.
I HAD THOUGHT TO HAVE LET INSOME OF ALL PROFESSIONS
THAT GO THE PRIMROSE WAYTO EVERLASTING BONFIRE.
ANON, ANON!
I PRAY YOUREMEMBER THE PORTER!
WAS IT SO LATE, FRIEND,
ERE YOU WENT TO BED,THAT YOU DO LIE SO LATE?
FAITH, SIR, WE WERE CAROUSINGTILL THE SECOND COCK!
AND DRINK, SIR, IS A GREATPROVOKER OF THREE THINGS!
WHAT THREE THINGSDOES DRINK ESPECIALLY PROVOKE?
MARRY, SIR, NOSE-PAINTING,SLEEP, AND URINE.
LECHERY, SIR, IT PROVOKESAND UNPROVOKES.
IT PROVOKES THE DESIRE,
BUT IT TAKES AWAYTHE PERFORMANCE, SIR.
THEREFORE MUCH DRINKMAY BE SAID
TO BE AN EQUIVOCATORWITH LECHERY.
IT MAKES HIMAND IT MARS HIM,
IT SETS HIM ONAND IT TAKES HIM OFF,
IT PERSUADES HIMAND DISHEARTENS HIM,
MAKES HIM STAND TOAND NOT STAND TO;
IN CONCLUSION,
EQUIVOCATES HIMIN A SLEEP,
AND GIVIN' HIM THE LIE,LEAVES HIM.
I BELIEVE DRINKGAVE THEE THE LIE.
THAT IT DID, SIR,I' THE VERY THROAT ON ME.
BUT I REQUITED HIMFOR HIS LIE,
AND, I THINK, BEINGTOO STRONG FOR HIM,
THOUGH HE TOOK UPMY LEGS SOMETIME,
YET I MADE A SHIFTTO CAST HIM.
IS THY MASTER STIRRING?
[faint clanking noise]
OUR KNOCKINGHAS AWAKED HIM.
HERE HE COMES.
GOOD MORROW, NOBLE SIR.
GOOD MORROW, BOTH.
IS THE KING STIRRING,WORTHY THANE?
NOT YET.
HE DID COMMAND METO CALL TIMELY ON HIM.
I HAVE ALMOST SLIPPEDTHE HOUR.
I'LL BRING YOU TO HIM.
I KNOW THIS ISA JOYFUL TROUBLE TO YOU,
BUT YET 'TIS ONE.
THE LABOR WE DELIGHT INPHYSICS PAIN.
THIS IS THE DOOR.
I'LL MAKE SO BOLD TO CALL,FOR 'TIS MY LIMITED SERVICE.
GOES THE KING HENCE TODAY?
HE DOES.HE DID APPOINT SO.
THE NIGHT HAS BEEN UNRULY.
WHERE WE LAY,OUR CHIMNEYS WERE BLOWN DOWN,
AND, AS THEY SAY, LAMENTINGS HEARD I' THE AIR,
STRANGE SCREAMS OF DEATH,
AND PROPHESYINGWITH ACCENTS TERRIBLE
OF DIRE COMBUSTIONAND CONFUSED EVENTS
NEW-HATCHEDTO THE WOEFUL TIME.
THE OBSCURE BIRD CLAMOREDTHE LIVELONG NIGHT.
SOME SAY THE EARTHWAS FEVEROUS AND DID SHAKE.
'TWAS A ROUGH NIGHT.
MY YOUNG REMEMBRANCECANNOT PARALLEL A FELLOW TO IT.
HORROR.
HORROR.  HORROR!
TONGUE NOR HEART CANNOT CONCEIVENOR NAME THEE!
(both)WHAT'S THE MATTER?
CONFUSION NOW HATH MADEHIS MASTERPIECE!
MOST SACRILEGIOUS MURDER
HATH BROKE OPETHE LORD'S ANOINTED TEMPLE,
AND STOLE THENCE THE LIFEO' THE BUILDING!
WHAT IS IT YOU SAY?
HIS MAJESTY?
APPROACH THE CHAMBER,
AND DESTROY YOUR SIGHTSWITH A NEW GORGON.
DO NOT BID ME SPEAK!
SEE, THEN SPEAK YOURSELVES.
AWAKE, AWAKE!RING THE ALARUM BELL!
MURDER, TREASON!
BANQUO AND DONALBAIN!MALCOLM!  AWAKE!
SHAKE OFF THIS DOWNY SLEEP,DEATH'S COUNTERFEIT,
AND LOOK ON DEATH ITSELF!
UP, UP AND SEETHE GREAT DOOM'S IMAGE!
MALCOLM AND BANQUO!
AS FROM YOUR GRAVESRISE UP AND WALK LIKE SPRITES,
TO COUNTENANCE THIS HORROR.
RING THE BELL!
[bell ringing]
WHAT'S THE BUSINESS,
THAT SUCH A TRUMPET CALLSTO PARLEY THE SLEEPERS?
SPEAK, SPEAK!
GENTLE LADY,
'TIS NOT FOR YOU TO HEARWHAT I CAN SPEAK.
THE REPETITION,IN A WOMAN'S EAR,
WOULD MURDER AS IT FELL.
O BANQUO, BANQUO!
OUR ROYAL MASTER'S MURDERED!
WHAT, IN OUR HOUSE?
TOO CRUEL ANYWHERE!
DEAR DUFF, I PRITHEE,CONTRADICT THYSELF,
AND SAY 'TIS NOT SO.
HAD I BUT DIED AN HOURBEFORE THIS CHANCE,
I HAD LIVEDA BLESSED TIME,
FOR FROM THIS INSTANT
THERE'S NOTHING SERIOUSIN MORTALITY.
ALL IS BUT TOYS.
RENOWN AND GRACEIS DEAD.
THE WINE OF LIFEIS DRAWN,
AND THE MERE LEESIS LEFT TO BRAG OF.
WHAT IS AMISS?
YOU ARE,AND DO NOT KNOW 'T.
THE SPRING,THE HEAD,
THE FOUNTAINOF YOUR BLOOD IS STOPPED.
THE VERY SOURCEIS STOPPED.
YOUR ROYAL FATHER'SMURDERED.
BY WHOM?
THOSE OF HIS CHAMBERHAD DONE 'T.
THEIR HANDS AND FACESWERE ALL BADGED WITH BLOOD.
SO WERE THEIR DAGGERS,
WHICH UNWIPED WE FOUNDUPON THEIR PILLOWS.
THEY STAREDAND WERE DISTRACTED.
NO MAN'S LIFEWAS TO BE TRUSTED WITH THEM.
I DO REPENT ME OF MY FURY,THAT I DID KILL THEM.
WHEREFORE DID YOU SO?
WHO CAN BE WISE,
AMAZED,TEMPERATE AND FURIOUS,
LOYAL AND NEUTRAL,IN A MOMENT?
NO MAN!
THE EXPEDITIONOF MY VIOLENT LOVE
OUTRUNTHE PAUSER REASON.
HERE LAY DUNCAN,
HIS SILVER SKIN LACEDWITH HIS GOLDEN BLOOD,
AND HIS GASHED STABS LOOKED
LIKE A BREACH IN NATURE FOR RUIN'S WASTEFUL ENTRY.
THERE,THE MURDERERS,
STEEPED IN THE COLORSOF THEIR TRADE,
THEIR DAGGERSBREECHED WITH GORE.
WHO COULD REFRAINTHAT HAD A HEART TO LOVE,
AND IN THAT HEART COURAGETO MAKE HIS LOVE KNOWN?
HELP ME HENCE, HO!
LOOK TO THE LADY.
WHY DO WE HOLD OUR TONGUES
THAT MOST MAY CLAIMTHIS ARGUMENT FOR OURS?
WHAT SHOULD BE SPOKEN HERE,WHERE OUR FATE,
HID IN AN AUGER HOLE,MAY RUSH AND SEIZE US?
LET'S AWAY.
OUR TEARSARE NOT YET BREWED.
NOR OUR STRONG SORROWUPON THE FOOT OF MOTION.
(Banquo)LOOK TO THE LADY.
AND WHEN WE HAVEOUR NAKED FRAILTIES HID,
THAT SUFFER IN EXPOSURE,
LET US MEET AND QUESTION
THIS MOST BLOODY PIECEOF WORK,
TO KNOW IT FURTHER.
FEARS AND SCRUPLESSHAKE US.
IN THE GREAT HANDOF GOD I STAND
AND THENCE, AGAINSTTHE UNDIVULGED PRETENCE,
I FIGHTOF TREASONOUS MALICE.
AND SO DO I.
(all)SO DO ALL.
LET'S BRIEFLYPUT ON MANLY READINESS,
AND MEET I'THE HALL TOGETHER.
(all)WELL CONTENTED.
WHAT WILL YOU DO?
LET'S NOT CONSORTWITH THEM.
TO SHOW AN UNFELT SORROWIS AN OFFICE
WHICH THE FALSE MANDOES EASY.
I'LL TO ENGLAND.
TO IRELAND, I.
OUR SEPARATED FORTUNESSHALL KEEP US BOTH THE SAFER.
WHERE WE ARE THERE'S DAGGERSIN MEN'S SMILES.
THE NEAR IN BLOOD,THE NEARER BLOODY.
THIS MURDEROUS SHAFTHATH NOT YET LIGHTED,
AND THE SAFEST WAYIS TO AVOID THE AIM.
THEREFORE, TO HORSE,
AND LET US NOT BE DAINTYOF LEAVE-TAKING,
BUT SHIFT AWAY.
THERE'S WARRANT IN THAT THEFTWHICH STEALS ITSELF
WHEN THERE'SNO MERCY LEFT.
THREESCORE AND TENI CAN REMEMBER WELL,
WITHIN THE VOLUME OF WHICH TIME
I HAVE SEEN HOURS DREADFULAND THINGS STRANGE,
BUT THIS SORE NIGHTHATH TRIFLED FORMER KNOWINGS.
AH, GOOD FATHER,
THOU SEEST THE HEAVENS,
AS TROUBLED WITH MAN'S ACT,THREATENS HIS BLOODY STAGE.
BY THE CLOCK 'TIS DAY,
AND YET DARK NIGHT STRANGLESTHE TRAVELING LAMP.
IS 'T NIGHT'S PREDOMINANCE,OR THE DAY'S SHAME,
THAT DARKNESS DOESTHE FACE OF EARTH ENTOMB
WHEN LIVING LIGHTSHOULD KISS IT?
'TIS UNNATURAL,EVEN LIKE THE DEED THAT'S DONE.
ON TUESDAY LAST A FALCONTOWERING IN HER PRIDE OF PLACE
WAS BY A MOUSING OWLHAWKED AT AND KILLED.
AND DUNCAN'S HORSES--
A THING MOST STRANGEAND CERTAIN--
BEAUTEOUS AND SWIFT,THE MINIONS OF THEIR RACE,
TURNED WILD IN NATURE,BROKE THEIR STALLS, FLUNG OUT,
CONTENDING'GAINST OBEDIENCE,
AS THEY WOULD MAKE WARWITH MANKIND.
'TIS SAIDTHEY EAT EACH OTHER.
THEY DID SO,
TO THE AMAZEMENTOF MINE EYES,
THAT LOOKED UPON 'T.
HERE COMESTHE GOOD MACDUFF.
HOW GOES THE WORLD,SIR, NOW?
WHY, SEE YOU NOT?
IS 'T KNOWN WHO DIDTHIS MORE THAN BLOODY DEED?
THOSE THAT MACBETHHATH SLAIN.
ALAS THE DAY.
WHAT GOODCOULD THEY PRETEND?
THEY WERE SUBORNED.
MALCOLM AND DONALBAIN,THE KING'S TWO SONS,
ARE STOL'N AWAY AND FLED,
WHICH PUTS UPON THEMSUSPICION OF THE DEED.
'GAINST NATURE STILL.
THRIFTLESS AMBITION,
THAT WILT RAVIN UPTHINE OWN LIFE'S MEANS.
THEN 'TIS MOST LIKETHE SOVEREIGNTY
WILL FALL UPON MACBETH.
HE IS ALREADY NAMED,
AND GONE TO SCONETO BE INVESTED.
WHERE IS DUNCAN'S BODY?
CARRIED TO COLMEKILL,
THE SACRED STOREHOUSEOF HIS PREDECESSORS
AND GUARDIANOF THEIR BONES.
WILL YOU TO SCONE?
NO, COUSIN.I'LL TO FIFE.
WELL...
I WILL THITHER.
WELL MAY YOU SEE THINGSWELL DONE THERE.
ADIEU,
LEST OUR OLD ROBESSIT EASIER THAN OUR NEW.
FAREWELL, FATHER.
GOD'S BENISON GO WITH YOU,
AND WITH THOSE THAT WOULD MAKEGOOD OF BAD AND FRIENDS OF FOES.
[hautboys playing fanfare]
THOU HAST IT NOW:
KING, CAWDOR, GLAMIS,ALL AS THE WEIRD WOMEN PROMISED,
AND I FEAR THOU PLAY'DSTMOST FOULLY FOR IT.
YET IT WAS SAID IT SHOULD NOTSTAND IN THY POSTERITY,
BUT THAT MYSELF SHOULD BE THEROOT AND FATHER OF MANY KINGS.
IF THERE COME TRUTHFROM THEM--
AS UPON THEE, MACBETH,THEIR SPEECHES SHINE--
WHY, BY THE VERITIESON THEE MADE GOOD,
MAY THEY NOT BEMY ORACLES AS WELL,
AND SET ME UP IN HOPE?
HERE'S OURCHIEF GUEST.
IF HE HADBEEN FORGOTTEN,
IT HAD BEEN AS A GAPIN OUR GREAT FEAST,
AND ALL-THINGUNBECOMING.
TONIGHT WE HOLDA SOLEMN SUPPER,
AND I'LL REQUESTYOUR PRESENCE.
LET YOUR HIGHNESSCOMMAND UPON ME,
TO THE WHICHMY DUTIES ARE
WITH A MOST INDISSOLUBLETIE FOREVER KNIT.
RIDE YOUTHIS AFTERNOON?
AYE, MY GOOD LORD.
WE SHOULD HAVE ELSEDESIRED YOUR GOOD ADVICE
IN THIS DAY'S COUNCIL.
BUT WE'LL TAKE TOMORROW.
IS IT FAR YOU RIDE?
AS FAR, MY LORD,
AS WILL FILL UP THE TIME'TWIXT THIS AND SUPPER.
GO NOT MY HORSETHE BETTER,
I MUST BECOME A BORROWEROF THE NIGHT FOR A DARK HOUR.
FAIL NOT OUR FEAST.
MY LORD,I WILL NOT.
WE HEAR OUR BLOODY COUSINSARE BESTOWED
IN ENGLANDAND IN IRELAND,
NOT CONFESSINGTHEIR CRUEL PARRICIDE,
FILLING THEIR HEARERSWITH STRANGE INVENTION.
BUT OF THAT TOMORROW,WHEN WHEREWITHAL
WE SHALL HAVECAUSE OF STATE
CRAVING US JOINTLY.
HIE YOU TO HORSE.
ADIEU, TILL YOURETURN AT NIGHT.
GOES FLEANCE WITH YOU?
AYE,MY GOOD LORD.
OUR TIMEDOES CALL UPON US.
I WISH YOUR HORSESSWIFT OF FOOT,
AND SO I DO COMMEND YOUTO THEIR BACKS.
FAREWELL.
LET EVERY MAN BE MASTEROF HIS TIME TILL 7:00 AT NIGHT.
TO MAKE SOCIETYTHE SWEETER WELCOME,
WE WILL KEEP OURSELFTILL SUPPERTIME ALONE.
SIRRAH,A WORD WITH YOU.
WHILES THEN,GOD BE W' YE.
ATTEND THOSE MENOUR LEISURE?
THEY AREWITHOUT THE GATE.
BRING THEMBEFORE US.
TO BE THUS IS NOTHING!
[whispering]But to be safely thus.
OUR FEARS IN BANQUOSTICK DEEP,
AND IN HIS ROYALTY OF NATURE
REIGNS THATWHICH WOULD BE FEARED.
'TIS MUCH HE DARES,
AND TO THAT DAUNTLESS TEMPEROF HIS MIND,
HE HATH A WISDOMTHAT DOTH GUIDE HIS VALOR
TO ACT IN SAFETY.
THERE IS NONE BUT HEWHOSE BEING I DO FEAR,
AND UNDER HIMMY GENIUS IS REBUKED,
AS IT WAS SAIDMARK ANTONY'S WAS
BY CAESAR.
HE CHID THE SISTERS
WHEN FIRST THEY PUTTHE NAME OF KING UPON ME,
AND BADE THEM SPEAK TO HIM.
THEN PROPHET-LIKE THEY HAIL'DHIM FATHER TO A LINE OF KINGS.
UPON MY HEAD THEY PLACEDA FRUITLESS CROWN,
AND PUT A BARREN SCEPTERIN MY GRIP,
THENCE TO BE WRENCHEDWITH AN UNLINEAL HAND,
NO SON OF MINE SUCCEEDING.
IF IT BE SO, FOR BANQUO'S ISSUEHAVE I FILED MY MIND,
FOR THEM THE GRACIOUS DUNCANHAVE I MURDERED,
PUT RANCORS IN THE VESSELOF MY PEACE ONLY FOR THEM,
AND MINE ETERNAL JEWEL
GIVEN TO THE COMMON ENEMYOF MAN,
TO MAKE THEM KINGS--THE SEEDS OF BANQUO KINGS!
[breathing heavily]
RATHER THAN SO,COME FATE INTO THE LIST,
AND CHAMPION METO THE UTTERANCE!
WHO'S THERE?
WAS IT NOT...YESTERDAY
WE SPOKE TOGETHER?
IT WAS,SO PLEASE YOUR HIGHNESS.
WELL THEN,
NOW...
HAVE YOU CONSIDEREDOF MY SPEECHES?
KNOW THAT IT WAS HEIN THE TIMES PAST
WHICH HELD YOU SO UNDER FORTUNE,
WHICH YOU THOUGHTHAD BEEN OUR INNOCENT SELF?
THIS I MADE GOOD TO YOUIN OUR LAST CONFERENCE,
PASSED IN PROBATION WITH YOU--
HOW YOU WERE BORN IN HAND,HOW CROSSED, THE INSTRUMENTS,
WHO WROUGHT WITH THEM,
AND ALL THINGS ELSETHAT SHOULD TO HALF A SOUL
AND TO A NOTION CRAZED SAY,"THUS DID BANQUO."
YOU MADE IT KNOWN TO US.
I...DID SO,
AND WENT FURTHER, WHICH IS NOWOUR POINT OF SECOND MEETING.
DO YOU FIND YOUR PATIENCESO PREDOMINANT IN YOUR NATURES
THAT YOU CAN LET THIS GO?
ARE YOU SO GOSPELED TO PRAYFOR THIS GOOD MAN AND HIS ISSUE,
WHOSE HEAVY HANDHATH BOWED YOU TO THE GRAVE
AND BEGGARED YOURS FOREVER?
WE ARE MEN, MY LIEGE.
AYE, IN THE CATALOGYE GO FOR MEN,
AS HOUNDS AND GREYHOUNDS,MONGRELS, SPANIELS,
CURS, SHOUGHS,WATER-RUGS, DEMI-WOLVES,
ARE CLEPT ALLBY THE NAME OF DOGS.
THE VALUED FILE DISTINGUISHESTHE SWIFT, THE SLOW,
THE SUBTLE,THE HOUSEKEEPER,THE HUNTER,
EVERY ONE,ACCORDING TO THAT GIFT
WHICH BOUNTEOUS NATUREHATH IN HIM CLOSED,
WHEREBY HE DOES RECEIVEPARTICULAR ADDITION
FROM THE BILLTHAT WRITES THEM ALL ALIKE:
AND SO OF MEN.
NOW,
IF YOU HAVE A STATIONIN THE FILE,
NOT I' THE WORST RANKOF MANHOOD,
SAY IT,
AND I WILL PUT THATBUSINESS IN YOUR BOSOMS,
WHOSE EXECUTIONTAKES YOUR ENEMY OFF,
GRAPPLES YOU TO THE HEARTAND LOVE OF US,
WHO WEAR OUR HEALTH SICKLYIN HIS LIFE,
WHICH IN HIS DEATHWERE PERFECT.
I AM ONE, MY LIEGE,
WHOM THE VILE BLOWSAND BUFFETS OF THE WORLD
HATH SO INCENSEDTHAT I AM RECKLESS
WHAT I DOTO SPITE THE WORLD.
AND I ANOTHER,SO WEARY WITH DISASTERS,
TUGGED WITH FORTUNE,
I WOULD SET MY LIFEON ANY CHANCE, TO MEND IT,
OR--OR BE RID ON 'T.
BOTH OF YOU KNOWBANQUO WAS YOUR ENEMY.
TRUE, MY LORD.
SO IS HE MINE,
AND IN SUCH BLOODY DISTANCE
THAT EVERY MINUTEOF HIS BEING THRUSTS
AGAINST MY NEAREST OF LIFE.
AND THOUGH I COULDWITH BAREFACED POWER
SWEEP HIM FROM MY SIGHT,AND BID MY WILL AVOUCH IT,
YET...
I MUST NOT,
FOR CERTAIN FRIENDSTHAT ARE BOTH HIS AND MINE,
BUT WAIL HIS FALLWHO I MYSELF STRUCK DOWN.
AND THENCE IT IS THAT ITO YOUR ASSISTANCE DO MAKE LOVE,
MASKING THE BUSINESSFROM THE COMMON EYE
FOR SUNDRY WEIGHTY REASONS.
WE SHALL, MY LORD,PERFORM WHAT YOU COMMAND US.
THOUGH OUR LIVES--
YOUR SPIRITS SHINETHROUGH YOU.
WITHIN THIS HOUR,
AT MOST, I WILL ADVISE YOUWHERE TO PLANT YOURSELVES,
ACQUAINT YOU WITHTHE PERFECT SPY O' THE TIME,
THE MOMENT ON IT,FOR IT MUST BE DONE TONIGHT,
AND SOMETHINGFROM THE PALACE,
ALWAYS THOUGHTTHAT I REQUIRE A CLEARNESS.
AND WITH HIM--TO LEAVE NO RUBSNOR BOTCHES IN THE WORK--
FLEANCE HIS SON,THAT KEEPS HIM COMPANY,
WHOSE ABSENCEIS NO LESS MATERIAL TO ME
THAN IS HIS FATHER'S,
MUST EMBRACE THE FATEOF THAT DARK HOUR.
RESOLVE YOURSELVES APART.
I'LL COME TO YOU ANON.
WE ARE RESOLVED,MY LORD.
I'LL CALLUPON YOU STRAIGHT.
ABIDE WITHIN.
IT IS CONCLUDED.
BANQUO,THY SOUL'S FLIGHT,
IF IT FIND HEAVEN,
MUST FIND IT OUT TONIGHT.
IS BANQUO GONEFROM COURT?
AYE, MADAM,BUT RETURNS AGAIN TONIGHT.
SAY TO THE KING
I WOULD ATTEND HIS LEISUREFOR A FEW WORDS.
MADAM, I WILL.
NAUGHT'S HAD,ALL'S SPENT,
WHERE OUR DESIREIS GOT WITHOUT CONTENT.
'TIS SAFER TO BE THATWHICH WE DESTROY
THAN BY DESTRUCTION DWELLIN DOUBTFUL JOY.
HOW NOW, MY LORD?
WHY DO YOU KEEP ALONE,
OF SORRIEST FANCIESYOUR COMPANIONS MAKING,
USING THOSE THOUGHTSWHICH SHOULD INDEED HAVE DIED
WITH THEM THEY THINK ON?
THINGS WITHOUT ALL REMEDYSHOULD BE WITHOUT REGARD.
WHAT'S DONE IS DONE.
WE HAVE SCORCHEDTHE SNAKE,
NOT KILLED IT.
SHE'LL CLOSEAND BE HERSELF,
WHILES OUR POOR MALICEREMAINS IN DANGER
OF HER FORMER TOOTH.
BUT LET THE FRAMEOF THINGS DISJOINT,
BOTH THE WORLDS SUFFER,
ERE WE WILL EATOUR MEAL IN FEAR
AND SLEEP IN THE AFFLICTIONOF THESE TERRIBLE DREAMS
THAT SHAKE US NIGHTLY.
BETTER TO BEWITH THE DEAD,
WHOM WE, TO GAIN OUR PEACE,HAVE SENT TO PEACE,
THAN ON THE TORTURE OF THE MINDTO LIE IN RESTLESS ECSTASY.
AH, DUNCAN IS IN HIS GRAVE.
AFTER LIFE'S FITFUL FEVER,HE SLEEPS WELL.
TREASON HAS DONE HIS WORST.
NOR STEEL, NOR POISON,MALICE DOMESTIC,
FOREIGN LEVY, NOTHING,CAN TOUCH HIM FURTHER.
COME ON.
GENTLE MY LORD,
SLEEK O'ERYOUR RUGGED LOOKS.
BE BRIGHT AND JOVIALAMONG YOUR GUESTS TONIGHT.
SO SHALL I, LOVE,AND SO, I PRAY, BE YOU.
LET YOUR REMEMBRANCEAPPLY TO BANQUO.
PRESENT HIM EMINENCEBOTH WITH EYE AND TONGUE:
UNSAFE THE WHILE,
THAT WE MUST LAVE OUR HONORSIN THESE FLATTERING STREAMS,
MAKING OUR FACES VIZARDSTO OUR HEARTS,
DISGUISING WHAT THEY ARE!
YOU MUST LEAVE THIS!
FULL OF SCORPIONSIS MY MIND, DEAR WIFE!
THOU KNOWEST THAT BANQUOAND HIS FLEANCE LIVES.
BUT IN THEM NATURE'S COPY'SNOT ETERNE.
AYE, THERE'S COMFORT YET.
THEY ARE ASSAILABLE.
[gasping]
THEN BE THOU JOCUND.
ERE THE BAT HATH FLOWNHIS CLOISTERED FLIGHT,
ERE TO BLACK HECAT'S SUMMONSTHE SHARD-BORNE BEETLE
WITH HIS DROWSY HUMSHATH RUNG NIGHT'S YAWNING PEAL,
THERE SHALL BE DONEA DEED OF DREADFUL NOTE.
WHAT'S TO BE DONE?
THEY--
BE INNOCENT OF THE KNOWLEDGE,DEAREST CHUCK,
TILL THOU APPLAUDTHE DEED.
COME, SEELING NIGHT,
SCARF UP THE TENDER EYEOF PITIFUL DAY,
AND WITH THY BLOODYAND INVISIBLE HAND
CANCEL AND TEAR TO PIECESTHAT GREAT BOND
WHICH KEEPS ME PALE.
LIGHT THICKENS,
AND THE CROW MAKES WINGTO THE ROOKY WOOD.
GOOD THINGS OF DAYBEGIN TO DROOP AND DROWSE,
WHILES NIGHT'SBLACK AGENTS
TO THEIR PREYSDO ROUSE.
AND--
THOU MARVEL'STAT MY WORDS,
BUT HOLD THEE STILL.
THINGS BAD BEGUNMAKE STRONG THEMSELVES...
BY ILL.
SO, PRITHEE.
GO WITH ME.
[rustling]
[breathing heavily]
WHO DID BID THEEJOIN WITH US?
MACBETH.
HE NEEDS NOTOUR MISTRUST,
SINCE HE DELIVERSOUR OFFICES,
AND WHAT WE HAVE TO DO,TO THE DIRECTION JUST.
[thunder rumbling]
THEN STAND WITH US.
THE WEST YET GLIMMERSWITH SOME STREAKS OF DAY.
NOW SPURSTHE LATED TRAVELER APACE
TO GAIN THE TIMELY INN,
AND NEAR, THE SUBJECTOF OUR WATCH APPROACHES.
[horses whinny]
[softly]I HEAR HORSES.
(Banquo) GIVE US A LIGHT THERE!  HO!
THEN 'TIS HE.
THE REST WITHIN EXPECTATIONARE IN THE COURT.
HIS HORSES GO ABOUT.
ALMOST A MILE.
BUT HE DOES USUALLY, FROM HENCETO THE PALACE GATE WALK.
[whispering]A light!
'TIS HE.
STAND TO 'T.
[thunder]
IT WILL BE RAINTONIGHT.
LET IT COME DOWN!
TREACHERY!
[grunting]
FLY, GOOD FLEANCE!  FLY!
FLY!  FLY!
THOU MAYEST REVENGE!
[grunts]
O SLAVE!
WHO DID STRIKE OUTTHE LIGHT?
WAS 'T NOT THE WAY?
THERE'S BUT ONE DOWN;THE SON IS FLED.
WE HAVE LOST THE BEST HALFOF OUR AFFAIR.
WELL, LET'S AWAYAND SAY HOW MUCH IS DONE.
[grunting]
YOU KNOW YOUR OWN DEGREES.SIT DOWN.
AT FIRST AND LAST,A HEARTY WELCOME.
THANKS TOYOUR MAJESTY.
OURSELF WILL MINGLEWITH SOCIETY
AND PLAYTHE HUMBLE HOST.
OUR HOSTESSKEEPS HER STATE,
BUT IN BEST TIMEWE WILL REQUIRE HER WELCOME.
PRONOUNCE IT FOR ME, SIR,TO ALL OUR FRIENDS,
FOR MY HEART SPEAKS,"THEY ARE WELCOME."
[banging]
SEE, THEY ENCOUNTER THEEWITH THEIR HEARTS' THANKS.
NOW WE'LL DRINK A MEASURETHE TABLE ROUND.
[applause]
THERE'S BLOODUPON THY FACE.
'TIS BANQUO'S THEN.
'TIS BETTER THEE WITHOUTTHAN HE WITHIN.
IS HE...DISPATCHED?
AYE, MY LORD.
HIS THROAT IS CUT.THAT I DID FOR HIM.
THOU ART THE BESTOF THE CUTTHROATS.
YET HE'S GOOD THAT DIDTHE LIKE FOR FLEANCE.
IF THOU DIDST IT,THOU ART THE NONPAREIL.
MOST ROYAL SIR,FLEANCE IS 'SCAPED.
[groans]
THEN COMES MY FIT AGAIN.
I HAD ELSE BEEN PERFECT,
WHOLE AS THE MARBLE,FOUNDED AS THE ROCK,
AS BROAD AND GENERALAS THE CASING AIR.
BUT NOW I'M CABINED,CRIBBED, CONFINED,
BOUND INTO SAUCY DOUBTSAND FEARS.
BUT BANQUO'S SAFE?
AYE, MY GOOD LORD.
SAFE IN A DITCHHE BIDES,
WITH 20 TRENCHED GASHESON HIS HEAD;
THE LEAST A DEATHTO NATURE.
THANKS FOR THAT.
THERE THE GROWNSERPENT LIES.
THE WORM THAT'S FLEDHATH NATURE
THAT IN TIMEWILL VENOM BREED,
NO TEETHFOR THE PRESENT.
NOW GET THEE GONE.
TOMORROW WE'LL HEAROURSELVES AGAIN.
[exhales]
MY ROYAL LORD,YOU DO NOT GIVE THE CHEER.
THE FEAST IS SOLDTHAT IS NOT OFTEN VOUCHED,
WHILE 'TIS A-MAKING,'TIS GIVEN WITH WELCOME.
[chuckling]SWEET REMEMBRANCER!
NOW GOOD DIGESTIONWAIT ON APPETITE,
AND HEALTH ON BOTH!
MAY IT PLEASEYOUR HIGHNESS SIT?
HERE HAD WE NOWOUR COUNTRY'S HONOR ROOFED
WERE THE GRACED PERSONOF OUR BANQUO PRESENT,
WHO MAY I RATHER CHALLENGEFOR UNKINDNESS
THAN PITY FOR MISCHANCE.
HIS ABSENCE, SIR,LAYS BLAME UPON HIS PROMISE.
PLEASE 'T YOUR HIGHNESSTO GRACE US
WITH YOURROYAL COMPANY?
THE TABLE'S FULL.
HERE IS A PLACERESERVED.
WHERE?
HERE,MY GOOD LORD.
[gasps]
WHAT IS IT THAT MOVESYOUR HIGHNESS?
WHICH OF YOUHAVE DONE THIS?
(man) WHAT, MY GOOD LORD?
[gasps]
THOU CANST NOT SAY I DID IT.
NEVER SHAKE THY GORY LOCKS AT ME!
GENTLEMEN, RISE.HIS HIGHNESS IS NOT WELL.
SIT, WORTHY FRIENDS.
MY LORD IS OFTEN THUS,
AND HATH BEENFROM HIS YOUTH.
PRAY YOU KEEP SEAT.
THE FIT IS MOMENTARY.
UPON A THOUGHTHE WILL AGAIN BE WELL.
IF MUCH YOU NOTE HIM,
YOU SHALL OFFEND HIMAND EXTEND HIS PASSION.
FEED,AND REGARD HIM NOT.
[whispering]Are you a man?
AYE, AND A BOLD ONE,
THAT DARE LOOK ON THATWHICH MIGHT APPALL THE DEVIL!
OH, PROPER STUFF!
THIS IS THE VERY PAINTINGOF YOUR FEAR.
THIS ISTHE AIR-DRAWN DAGGER
WHICH YOU SAIDLED YOU TO DUNCAN.
OH, THESE FLAWS AND STARTS,IMPOSTORS TO TRUE FEAR,
WOULD WELL BECOMEA WOMAN'S STORY AT A FIRE,
AUTHORIZED BY HER GRANDAM.
SHAME ITSELF,WHY DO YOU MAKE SUCH FACES?
WHEN ALL'S DONE,YOU LOOK BUT ON A STOOL.
PRITHEE SEE THERE!
BEHOLD!  LOOK!  LO!ALL SAY YOU?
WHY, WHAT CARE I?
IF THOU CANST NOD,SPEAK TOO!
IF CHARNEL HOUSESAND OUR GRAVES
MUST SEND THOSETHAT WE BURY BACK,
OUR MONUMENTS SHALL BETHE MAWS OF KITES!
WHAT?  QUITE UNMANNEDIN FOLLY?
[panting]
IF--IF I STAND HERE,I SAW HIM.
FIE, FOR SHAME!
THE TIME HAS BEEN,THAT WHEN THE BRAINS WERE OUT,
THE MAN WOULD DIE,AND THERE AN END.
BUT NOW THEY RISE AGAIN
WITH 20 MORTAL MURDERSON THEIR CROWNS,
AND PUSH USFROM OUR STOOLS.
THIS IS MORE STRANGETHAN SUCH A MURDER IS.
[both panting]
MY WORTHY LORD,
YOUR NOBLE FRIENDSDO LACK YOU.
I DO FORGET.
DO NOT MUSE AT ME,MY MOST WORTHY FRIENDS.
I HAVEA STRANGE INFIRMITY,
WHICH IS NOTHINGTO THOSE THAT KNOW ME.
COME, LOVE AND HEALTHTO ALL!
THEN I'LL SIT DOWN.
COME, GIVE MESOME WINE.
FILL FULL.
I DRINK TO THE GENERAL JOYOF THE WHOLE TABLE,
AND TO OURDEAR FRIEND BANQUO,
WHOM WE MISS.
WOULD HE WERE HERE.
TO ALL, AND HIM,WE THIRST,
AND ALL TO ALL!
OUR DUTIESAND THE PLEDGE!
(all)THE PLEDGE!
AVAUNT, AND QUIT MY SIGHT!
LET THE EARTH HIDE THEE!
THY BONES ARE MARROWLESS,THY BLOOD IS COLD.
THOU HAST NO SPECULATIONIN THOSE EYES
WHICH THOU DOST GLARE WITH!
THINK OF THIS,GOOD PEERS,
BUT AS A THINGOF CUSTOM.
'TIS NO OTHER.
ONLY IT SPOILSTHE PLEASURE OF THE TIME.
WHAT MAN DARE, I DARE.
APPROACH THOU LIKETHE RUGGED RUSSIAN BEAR,
THE ARMED RHINOCEROS,OR THE HYRCAN TIGER.
TAKE ANY SHAPE BUT THAT,
AND MY FIRM NERVESSHALL NEVER TREMBLE!
OR BE ALIVE AGAIN, AND DARE METO THE DESERT WITH THY SWORD!
IF TREMBLING I INHABIT THEN,PROTEST ME THE BABY OF A GIRL!
HENCE, HORRIBLE SHADOW!
UNREAL MOCKERY!
HENCE!
[breathing heavily]
WHY, SO.
BEING GONE,I AM A MAN AGAIN.
PRAY YOU, SIT STILL.
YOU HAVE DISPLACEDTHE MIRTH,
BROKE THE GOOD MEETING,
WITH MOST ADMIREDDISORDER.
CAN SUCH THINGS BE,
AND OVERCOME USLIKE A SUMMER'S CLOUD,
WITHOUT OUR SPECIAL WONDER?
[Macbeth chuckles]
YOU MAKE ME STRANGE EVENTO THAT DISPOSITION THAT I OWE,
WHEN NOW I THINKYOU CAN BEHOLD SUCH SIGHTS
AND KEEP THE NATURAL RUBYOF YOUR CHEEKS,
WHILE MINEIS BLANCHED WITH FEAR.
WHAT SIGHTS?
I PRAY YOUSPEAK NOT!
HE GROWS WORSEAND WORSE!
QUESTION ENRAGES HIM.
AT ONCE,GOOD NIGHT.
STAND NOT UPON THE ORDEROF YOUR GOING, BUT GO AT ONCE!
GOOD NIGHT,
AND BETTER HEALTHATTEND HIS MAJESTY!
A KIND GOOD NIGHTTO ALL!
IT WILL HAVE BLOOD,THEY SAY.
BLOOD WILL HAVE BLOOD.
STONES HAVE BEENKNOWN TO MOVE
AND TREES TO SPEAK.
AUGURS ANDUNDERSTOOD RELATIONS
HAVE BY MAGGOT PIESAND CHOUGHS AND ROOKS
BROUGHT FORTHTHE SECRET'ST MAN OF BLOOD.
WHAT IS THE NIGHT?
ALMOST AT ODDS WITH MORNING,WHICH IS WHICH.
HOW SAY'ST THOU,
THAT MACDUFF DENIESHIS PERSON
AT OUR GREAT BIDDING?
DID YOU...SEND TO HIM, SIR?
I HEAR IT BY THE WAY.
THERE'S NOTA ONE OF THEM
BUT IN HIS HOUSEI KEEP A SERVANT FEED.
BUT I WILL SEND;I WILL TOMORROW.
AND BETIMES I WILLTO THE WEIRD SISTERS.
MORE THEY SHALL SPEAK.
FOR NOW I AM BENT TO KNOWBY THE WORST MEANS,
THE WORST!
FOR MINE OWN GOODALL CAUSES SHALL GIVE WAY!
[clattering]
I AM IN BLOOD...
STEPPED IN...
SO FAR...
THAT SHOULD IWADE IN NO MORE,
RETURNING...
WERE AS TEDIOUSAS GO O'ER.
STRANGE THINGS I HAVE IN HEADTHAT WILL TO HAND,
WHICH MUST BE ACTEDERE THEY MAY BE SCANNED.
YOU LACK THE SEASONOF ALL NATURES,
SLEEP.
HA!
COME!
WE'LL TO SLEEP.
MY STRANGE AND SELF-ABUSEIS THE INITIATE FEAR
THAT WANTS HARD USE.
WE...
ARE YET BUT YOUNG...
IN DEED.
[thunder rumbling]
THRICE THE BRINDED CATHATH MEWED.
THRICE, AND ONCETHE HEDGE-PIG WHINED.
THE HARPIER CRIES,
"'TIS TIME,'TIS TIME."
'ROUND ABOUTTHE CAULDRON GO,
IN THE POISONED ENTRAILSTHROW.
TOAD, THAT UNDER COLD STONEDAYS AND NIGHTS HAS 31
SWELTERED VENOMSLEEPING GOT,
BOIL THOU FIRSTIN THE CHARMED POT.
DOUBLE, DOUBLE,TOIL AND TROUBLE.
FIRE BURNAND CAULDRON BUBBLE.
FILLET OF A FENNY SNAKE,IN THE CAULDRON BOIL AND BAKE.
EYE OF NEWT.
TOE OF FROG.WOOL OF BAT.
AND TONGUE OF DOG.
ADDER'S FORKAND BLINDWORM'S STING.
LIZARD'S LEGAND HOWLET'S WING.
FOR A CHARMOF POWERFUL TROUBLE,
LIKE A HELL BROTHBOIL AND BUBBLE.
DOUBLE, DOUBLE,TOIL AND TROUBLE.
FIRE BURN...
AND CAULDRON BUBBLE.
SCALE OF DRAGON.TOOTH OF WOLF.
WITCH'S MUMMY.
MAW AND GULFOF THE RAVIN'D SALT-SEA SHARK.
ROOT OF HEMLOCKDIGGED IN THE DARK.
LIVER OF BLASPHEMING JEW.
GALL OF GOAT AND SLIPS OF YEWSLIVERED IN THE MOON'S ECLIPSE.
NOSE OF TURKAND TARTAR'S LIPS.
FINGER OF BIRTH-STRANGLED BABEDITCH-DELIVERED BY A DRAB.
MAKE THE GRUELTHICK AND SLAB.
ADD THERETOA TIGER'S CHAUDRON
FOR THE INGREDIENTSOF OUR CAULDRON.
DOUBLE, DOUBLE,TOIL AND TROUBLE.
FIRE BURNAND CAULDRON BUBBLE.
COOL IT WITHA BABOON'S BLOOD,
THEN THE CHARMIS FIRM AND GOOD.
BY THE PRICKINGOF MY THUMBS,
SOMETHING WICKEDTHIS WAY COMES.
OPEN, LOCKS,WHOEVER KNOCKS!
[thunder rumbling]
HOW NOW,
YOU SECRET, BLACK,AND MIDNIGHT HAGS?
WHAT IS IT YOU DO?
A DEEDWITHOUT A NAME.
I CONJURE YOU,BY THAT WHICH YOU PROFESS,
HOW E'ERYOU COME TO KNOW IT,
ANSWER ME.
THOUGH YOU UNTIE THE WINDSAND LET THEM FIGHT
AGAINST THE CHURCHES,
THOUGH THE YESTY WAVES CONFOUNDAND SWALLOW NAVIGATION UP,
THOUGH BLADED CORN BE LODGEDAND TREES BLOWN DOWN,
THOUGH CASTLES TOPPLEON THEIR WARDERS' HEADS,
THOUGH PALACES AND PYRAMIDS
DO SLOPE THEIR HEADSTO THEIR FOUNDATIONS,
THOUGH THE TREASURE OF NATURE'SGERMENS TUMBLE ALL TOGETHER
EVEN TILL DESTRUCTION SICKEN,ANSWER ME TO WHAT I ASK YOU.
SPEAK.
DEMAND.
WE'LL ANSWER.
SAY, IF THOU'DSTRATHER HEAR IT
FROM OUR MOUTHS,OR FROM OUR MASTERS'?
CALL 'EM.LET ME SEE 'EM.
POUR INSOW'S BLOOD,
THAT HATH EATEN HER NINE FARROW;
GREASE THAT'S SWEATEN FROM THE MURDERER'S GIBBET
THROW INTO THE FLAME.
(first witch)COME HIGH OR LOW.
THYSELF AND OFFICEDEFTLY SHOW!
TELL ME,THOU UNKNOWN POWER--
HE KNOWS THY THOUGHT.
HEAR HIS SPEECH,BUT SAY THOU NAUGHT.
(apparition) MACBETH.  MACBETH.  MACBETH.
BEWARE MACDUFF. BEWARE THE THANE OF FIFE.
DISMISS ME.  ENOUGH.
THOU HAST HARPED MY FEAR ARIGHT.
BUT ONE WORD MORE--
HE WILL NOTBE COMMANDED.
HERE'S ANOTHER,
MORE POTENTTHAN THE FIRST.
(second apparition) MACBETH.  MACBETH.  MACBETH.
HAD I THREE EARS,I'D HEAR THEE.
BE BLOODY, BOLD AND RESOLUTE.
LAUGH TO SCORN THE POWER OF MAN,
FOR NONE OF WOMAN BORN SHALL HARM MACBETH.
[gasps]
THEN LIVE, MACDUFF.
WHAT NEED I FEAR OF THEE?
BUT YET I'LL MAKE ASSURANCEDOUBLE SURE.
I'LL TAKE A BOND OF FATE:THOU SHALT NOT LIVE,
THAT I MAY TELLPALE-HEARTED FEAR IT LIES,
AND SLEEPIN SPITE OF THUNDER.
WHAT IS THIS THAT RISESLIKE THE ISSUE OF A KING,
AND WEARS UPON HIS BABY BROW
THE ROUND AND TOPOF SOVEREIGNTY?
(second witch)LISTEN, BUT SPEAK NOT TO 'T.
(third apparition) BE LION-METTLED, PROUD,
AND TAKE NO CARE WHO CHAFES,
WHO FRETS, OR WHERE CONSPIRERS ARE:
MACBETH SHALL NEVER VANQUISHED BE UNTIL GREAT BIRNAM WOOD
TO HIGH DUNSINANE HILL SHALL COME AGAINST HIM.
[gasps]
THAT WILL NEVER BE.
WHO CAN IMPRESS THE FOREST,
BID THE TREE UNFIXHIS EARTHBOUND ROOT?
SWEET BODEMENTS!  GOOD!
REBELLION'S HEAD, RISE NEVERTILL THE WOOD OF BIRNAM RISE,
AND OUR HIGH-PLACED MACBETHSHALL LIVE THE LEASE OF NATURE,
PAY HIS BREATHTO TIME AND MORTAL CUSTOM.
YET MY HEART THROBSTO KNOW ONE THING.
TELL ME, IF YOUR ARTSCAN TELL SO MUCH,
SHALL BANQUO'S ISSUEEVER REIGN IN THIS KINGDOM?
SEEK TO KNOWNO MORE.
I WILLBE SATISFIED.
DENY ME THIS,
AND AN ETERNAL CURSE FALLUPON YOU!
SHOW.
(first witch) SHOW HIS EYES, AND GRIEVE HIS HEART.
COME LIKE SHADOWS, SO DEPART.
THOU ART TOO LIKETHE SPIRIT OF BANQUO.
DOWN.
THY CROWN DOES SEARMINE EYEBALLS.
AND THY HAIR,THOU OTHER GOLD-BOUND BROW,
IS LIKE THE FIRST.
A THIRD IS LIKE THE FORMER!
FILTHY HAGS,
WHY DO YOU SHOW ME THIS?
A FOURTH?
START, EYES!
WHAT, WILL THE LINE STRETCH OUTTO THE CRACK OF DOOM?
ANOTHER YET?
A SEVENTH?
I'LL SEE NO MORE!
AND YET THE EIGHTH APPEARS,
WHO BEARS A GLASSWHICH SHOWS ME MANY MORE.
AND SOME I SEETHAT TWOFOLD BALLS
AND TREBLE SCEPTRES CARRY.
HORRIBLE SIGHT!
WELL, NOW I SEE 'TIS TRUE,
FOR THE BLOOD-BOLTER'D BANQUOSMILES UPON ME,
AND POINTS AT THEM FOR HIS.
WHAT?
IS THIS SO?
(first witch)AYE, SIR.ALL THIS IS SO.
[shudders]
WHERE ARE THEY?
GONE!
LET THIS PERNICIOUS HOUR STANDAYE ACCURSED IN THE CALENDAR!
[thunder rumbling]
MY FORMER SPEECHES HAVEBUT HIT YOUR THOUGHTS,
WHICH CANINTERPRET FURTHER.
ONLY I SAY THINGSHAVE BEEN STRANGELY BORNE.
THE GRACIOUS DUNCANWAS PITIED OF MACBETH.
MARRY, HE WAS DEAD.
AND THE RIGHT VALIANT BANQUOWALKED TOO LATE,
WHOM YOU MAY SAY,IF 'T PLEASE YOU,
FLEANCE KILLED,FOR FLEANCE FLED.
MEN MUST NOT WALKTOO LATE.
WHO CANNOT WANTTHE THOUGHT,
HOW MONSTROUS IT WASFOR MALCOLM AND FOR DONALBAIN
TO KILLTHEIR GRACIOUS FATHER?
DAMN'D FACT.
HOW IT DIDGRIEVE MACBETH.
DID HE NOT STRAIGHTIN PIOUS RAGE
THE TWO DELINQUENTS TEAR,
THAT WERE THE SLAVES OF DRINKAND THRALLS OF SLEEP?
WAS NOT THAT NOBLY DONE?AYE, AND WISELY TOO.
FOR 'TWOULD HAVE ANGEREDANY HEART ALIVE
TO HEAR THE MEN DENY IT.
SO THAT, I SAY,
HE HAS BORNEALL THINGS WELL,
AND I DO THINK THAT HAD HEDUNCAN'S SONS UNDER HIS KEY--
AND, AS PLEASE HEAVEN,HE SHALL NOT--
THEY SHOULD FINDWHAT 'TWERE TO KILL A FATHER;
SO SHOULD FLEANCE.
BUT PEACE, FOR FROMBROAD WORDS AND 'CAUSE
HE FAILED HIS PRESENCEAT THE TYRANT'S FEAST,
I HEAR MACDUFF LIVESIN DISGRACE.
SIR, CAN YOU TELLWHERE HE BESTOWS HIMSELF?
THE SON OF DUNCAN,
FROM WHOM THIS TYRANT HOLDSTHE DUE OF BIRTH,
LIVES IN THE ENGLISH COURT
AND IS RECEIVED OF THE MOSTPIOUS EDWARD WITH SUCH GRACE
THAT THE MALEVOLENCEOF FORTUNE
NOTHING TAKESFROM HIS HIGH RESPECT.
THITHER MACDUFF IS GONETO PRAY THE HOLY KING,
UPON HIS AIDE
TO WAKE NORTHUMBERLANDAND WARLIKE SIWARD,
THAT BY THE HELP OF THESE--
WITH HIM ABOVETO RATIFY THE WORK--
WE MAY AGAIN GIVETO OUR TABLES MEAT,
SLEEP TO OUR NIGHTS,
FREE FROM OUR FEASTSAND BANQUETS BLOODY KNIVES,
DO FAITHFUL HOMAGEAND RECEIVE FREE HONORS--
ALL OF WHICHWE PINE FOR NOW.
AND THIS REPORT HATHSO EXASPERATE THEIR KING
THAT HE PREPARESFOR SOME ATTEMPT OF WAR.
SENT HE TO MACDUFF?
HE DID.
AND WITH AN ABSOLUTE"SIR, NOT I,"
THE CLOUDY MESSENGERTURNS ME HIS BACK AND HUMS,
AS WHO SHOULD SAY,
"YOU'LL RUE THE TIMETHAT CLOGS ME WITH THIS ANSWER."
THAT MIGHT WELL ADVISE HIMTO A CAUTION,
TO HOLD WHAT DISTANCEHIS WISDOM CAN PROVIDE.
SOME HOLY ANGEL FLYTO THE COURT OF ENGLAND,
AND UNFOLD HIS MESSAGEERE HE COME,
THAT A SWIFT BLESSINGMAY SOON RETURN
TO THISOUR SUFFERING COUNTRY
UNDER A HAND ACCURSED!
SAW YOUTHE WEIRD SISTERS?
NO, MY LORD.
CAME THEY NOT BY YOU?
NO INDEED, MY LORD.
INFECTED BE THE AIRWHEREON THEY RIDE,
AND DAMN'D ALL THOSETHAT TRUST THEM!
I DID HEARTHE GALLOPING OF HORSE.
WHO WAS IT CAME BY?
'TIS TWO OR THREE, MY LORD,THAT BRING YOU WORD
MACDUFF IS FLEDTO ENGLAND.
FLED TO ENGLAND?
AYE, MY GOOD LORD.
TIME, THOU ANTICIPATESTMY DREAD EXPLOITS.
FROM THIS MOMENT,THE VERY FIRSTLINGS OF MY HEART
SHALL BE THE FIRSTLINGSOF MY HAND.
AND EVEN NOW,TO CROWN MY THOUGHTS WITH ACTS,
BE IT THOUGHT AND DONE.
THE CASTLE OF MACDUFF I WILLSURPRISE, SEIZE UPON FIFE,
GIVE TO THE EDGEOF THE SWORD HIS WIFE,
HIS BABES,
AND ALL UNFORTUNATE SOULSTHAT TRACE HIM IN HIS LINE.
NO BOASTING LIKE A FOOL.
THIS DEED I'LL DOBEFORE THIS PURPOSE COOL.
WHAT HAD HE DONE,TO MAKE HIM FLY THE LAND?
YOU MUST HAVEPATIENCE, MADAM.
HE HAD NONE.HIS FLIGHT WAS MADNESS.
[baby crying]
WHEN OUR ACTIONS DO NOT,OUR FEARS DO MAKE US TRAITORS.
YOU KNOW NOT WHETHER IT WASHIS WISDOM OR HIS FEAR.
WISDOM?
TO LEAVE HIS WIFE,
TO LEAVE HIS BABES,HIS MANSION, AND HIS TITLES
IN A PLACEFROM WHENCE HIMSELF DOES FLY?
HE LOVES US NOT;HE WANTS THE NATURAL TOUCH.
FOR THE POOR WREN,THE MOST DIMINUTIVE OF BIRDS,
WILL FIGHT,HER YOUNG ONES IN HER NEST,
AGAINST THE OWL.
ALL IS THE FEAR,AND NOTHING IS THE LOVE!
AS LITTLE IS THE WISDOM,
WHERE THE FLIGHT SO RUNSAGAINST ALL REASON.
MY DEAREST COZ,
I PRAY YOUSCHOOL YOURSELF.
BUT FOR YOUR HUSBAND,
HE IS NOBLE,WISE, JUDICIOUS,
AND BEST KNOWSTHE FITS OF THE SEASON.
I DARE NOT SPEAKMUCH FURTHER.
BUT CRUEL ARE THE TIMESWHEN WE ARE TRAITORS,
AND DO NOTKNOW OURSELVES,
WHEN WE HOLD RUMORFROM WHAT WE FEAR,
YET KNOW NOTWHAT WE FEAR,
BUT FLOAT UPON A WILDAND VIOLENT SEA EACH WAY,
AND NONE.
I TAKE MY LEAVE OF YOU.
SHALL NOT BE LONGBUT I'LL BE HERE AGAIN.
THINGS AT THE WORSTWILL CEASE,
OR ELSE CLIMB UPWARDTO WHAT THEY WERE BEFORE.
MY PRETTY COUSIN,BLESSING UPON YOU.
FATHER'D HE IS,AND YET HE'S FATHERLESS.
I AM SO MUCH A FOOL,SHOULD I STAY LONGER,
IT WOULD BE MY DISGRACEAND YOUR DISCOMFORT.
I TAKE MY LEAVEAT ONCE.
SIRRAH,YOUR FATHER IS DEAD.
AND WHAT WILL YOU DO NOW?HOW WILL YOU LIVE?
AS THE BIRDS DO, MOTHER.
WHAT, WITH WORMSAND FLIES?
WITH WHAT I GET, I MEAN,AND SO DO THEY.
POOR BIRD,
THOU'DST NEVER FEARTHE NET NOR LIME,
THE PITFALL NOR THE GIN.
WHY SHOULD I, MOTHER?
POOR BIRDS,THEY ARE NOT SET FOR.
MY FATHER IS NOT DEAD,FOR ALL YOUR SAYING.
YES, HE IS DEAD.
HOW WILT THOU DOFOR A FATHER?
NAY, HOW WILL YOU DOFOR A HUSBAND?
WHY, I CAN BUY ME 20AT ANY MARKET.
THEN YOU'LL BUY 'EMTO SELL AGAIN.
THOU SPEAK'STWITH ALL THY WIT,
AND YET, IN FAITH...
'TIS WIT ENOUGH FOR THEE.
WAS MY FATHERA TRAITOR, MOTHER?
AYE, THAT HE WAS.
WHAT IS A TRAITOR?
WHY, ONE THAT SWEARSAND LIES.
AND BE ALL TRAITORSTHAT DO SO?
EVERY ONE THAT DOES SOIS A TRAITOR,
AND MUST BE HANGED.
AND MUST THEY ALL BE HANGEDTHAT SWEAR AND LIE?
EVERY ONE.
WHO MUST HANG THEM?
WHY, THE HONEST MEN.
THEN THE LIARSAND SWEARERS ARE FOOLS,
FOR THERE ARE LIARSAND SWEARERS ENOW
TO BEAT THE HONEST MENAND HANG UP THEM.
[laughs]
NOW GOD HELP THEE,POOR MONKEY.
BUT HOW WILT THOU DOFOR A FATHER?
IF HE WERE DEAD,YOU'D WEEP FOR HIM.
IF YOU WOULD NOT,IT WERE A GOOD SIGN
THAT I SHOULD QUICKLYHAVE A NEW FATHER.
POOR PRATTLER,HOW THOU TALK'ST!
[footsteps approaching]
BLESS YOU,FAIR DAME.
I AM NOTTO YOU KNOWN,
THOUGH IN YOUR STATEOF HONOR I AM PERFECT.
I DOUBT SOME DANGERDOES APPROACH YOU NEARLY.
IF YOU WILL TAKEA HOMELY MAN'S ADVICE,
BE NOT FOUND HERE.
WELL, HENCEWITH YOUR LITTLE ONES!
TO FRIGHT YOU THUS,METHINKS I AM TOO SAVAGE.
TO DO WORSE TO YOUWERE FELL CRUELTY,
WHICH IS TOO NIGHYOUR PERSON.
WELL, HEAVENPRESERVE YOU!
I DARE ABIDE NO LONGER.
WHITHER SHOULD I FLY?
I HAVE DONE NO HARM.
BUT I REMEMBER NOWI AM IN THIS EARTHLY WORLD--
WHERE TO DO HARMIS OFTEN LAUDABLE,
TO DO GOOD SOMETIME ACCOUNTEDDANGEROUS FOLLY.
WHY, THEN, ALAS, DO IPUT UP THAT WOMANLY DEFENSE,
TO SAY I HAVE DONE NO HARM?
WHAT ARE THESE FACES?
WHERE'S YOUR HUSBAND?
I HOPE IN NO PLACESO UNSANCTIFIED
WHERE SUCH AS THOUMAYST FIND HIM.
HE'S A TRAITOR.
THOU LIEST,THOU SHAG-EAR'D VILLAIN!
WHAT, YOU EGG?
[yelling]
[yelling
[boy screaming]
YOUNG FRY OF TREACHERY.
[muffled sobbing]
[Lady Macduff screaming]
LET US SEEK OUTSOME DESOLATE SHADE,
AND THERE WEEPOUR SAD BOSOMS EMPTY.
LET US RATHER HOLD FASTTHE MORTAL SWORD,
AND LIKE GOOD MEN BESTRIDEOUR DOWNFALL'N BIRTHDOM.
EACH NEW MORN
NEW WIDOWS HOWL,NEW ORPHANS CRY,
NEW SORROWS STRIKE HEAVENON THE FACE,
THAT IT RESOUNDSAS IF IT FELT WITH SCOTLAND
AND YELLED OUTLIKE SYLLABLE OF DOLOR.
WHAT I BELIEVE,I'LL WAIL;
WHAT KNOW, BELIEVE.
AND WHAT I CAN REDRESS,
AS I SHALL FINDTHE TIME TO FRIEND, I WILL.
WHAT YOU HAVE SPOKE,IT MAY BE SO PERCHANCE.
THIS TYRANT, WHOSE SOLE NAMEBLISTERS OUR TONGUES,
WAS ONCE THOUGHT HONEST.
YOU HAVE LOVED HIM WELL.
HE HATH NOTTOUCHED YOU YET.
I AM YOUNG,
BUT SOMETHING YOU MAY DESERVEOF HIM THROUGH ME,
AND WISDOM TO OFFER UPA WEAK, POOR, INNOCENT LAMB
TO APPEASE AN ANGRY GOD.
I AM NOT TREACHEROUS.
BUT MACBETH IS!
A GOOD AND VIRTUOUS NATURE MAYRECOIL AT AN IMPERIAL CHARGE.
BUT I SHALL CRAVEYOUR PARDON.
THAT WHICH YOU ARE,MY THOUGHTS CANNOT TRANSPOSE.
ANGELS ARE BRIGHT STILL,THOUGH THE BRIGHTEST FELL.
THOUGH ALL THINGS FOULWOULD WEAR THE BROWS OF GRACE,
YET GRACEMUST STILL LOOK SO.
I HAVE LOST MY HOPES.
PERCHANCE EVEN THEREWHERE I DID FIND MY DOUBTS.
WHY IN THAT RAWNESSLEFT YOU WIFE AND CHILD,
THOSE PRECIOUS MOTIVES,
THOSE STRONG KNOTS OF LOVE,WITHOUT LEAVE-TAKING?
I PRAY YOU,
LET NOT MY JEALOUSIESBE YOUR DISHONORS,
BUT MINE OWN SAFETIES.
YOU MAY BE RIGHTLY JUST,WHATEVER I SHALL THINK.
BLEED, BLEED,POOR COUNTRY.
GREAT TYRANNY,LAY THOU THY BASIS SURE,
FOR GOODNESSDARE NOT CHECK THEE.
WEAR THOU THY WRONGS,
THE TITLE...IS AFEARED.
FARE THEE WELL, LORD.
I WOULD NOT BE THE VILLAINTHAT THOU THINK'ST
FOR THE WHOLE SPACETHAT'S IN THE TYRANT'S GRASP
AND THE RICH EAST TO BOOT.
BE NOT OFFENDED.
I SPEAK NOTAS IN ABSOLUTE FEAR OF YOU.
I THINK OUR COUNTRY SINKSBENEATH THE YOKE.
IT WEEPS.  IT BLEEDS.
AND EACH NEW DAYA GASH IS ADDED TO HER WOUNDS.
I THINK WITHAL
THERE WOULD BE HANDS UPLIFTEDIN MY RIGHT.
AND HEREFROM GRACIOUS ENGLAND
HAVE I OFFEROF GOODLY THOUSANDS.
BUT, FOR ALL THIS,
WHEN I SHALL TREADUPON THE TYRANT'S HEAD,
OR WEAR IT ON MY SWORD,
YET MY POOR COUNTRYSHALL HAVE MORE VICES
THAN IT HAD BEFORE.
MORE SUFFER,
AND MORE SUNDRY WAYSTHAN EVER,
BY HIM THAT SHALL SUCCEED.
WHAT SHOULD HE BE?
IT IS MYSELF I MEAN,
IN WHOM I KNOW ALLTHE PARTICULARS OF VICE
SO GRAFTED THATWHEN THEY SHALL BE OPENED,
BLACK MACBETH WILL SEEMAS PURE AS SNOW,
AND THE POOR STATEESTEEM HIM AS A LAMB,
BEING COMPARED WITHMY CONFINELESS HARMS.
NOT IN THE LEGIONSOF HORRID HELL
CAN COME A DEVIL MORE DAMN'DIN EVILS TO TOP MACBETH.
I GRANT HIM BLOODY,LUXURIOUS, AVARICIOUS,
FALSE, DECEITFUL,SUDDEN, MALICIOUS,
SMACKING OF EVERY SINTHAT HAS A NAME.
BUT THERE'S NO BOTTOM, NONE,IN MY VOLUPTUOUSNESS.
YOUR WIVES, YOUR DAUGHTERS,YOUR MATRONS, AND YOUR MAIDS
COULD NOT FILL UPTHE CISTERN OF MY LUST,
AND MY DESIREALL CONTINENT IMPEDIMENTS
WOULD O'ERBEARTHAT DID OPPOSE MY WILL.
BETTER MACBETHTHAN SUCH AN ONE TO REIGN.
BOUNDLESS INTEMPERANCEIN NATURE IS A TYRANNY.
IT HATH BEEN TH' UNTIMELYEMPTYING OF THE HAPPY THRONE,
AND FALL OF MANY KINGS.
BUT FEAR NOT YET
TO TAKE UPON YOUWHAT IS YOURS.
YOU MAY CONVEY YOUR PLEASURESIN A SPACIOUS PLENTY,
AND YET SEEM COLD,THE TIME YOU MAY SO HOODWINK.
WE HAVEWILLING DAMES ENOUGH.
THERE CANNOT BE THAT VULTUREIN YOU TO DEVOUR SO MANY
AS WILL TO GREATNESSDEDICATE THEMSELVES,
FINDING IT SO INCLINED.
WITH THIS,
THERE GROWS IN MY MOSTILL-COMPOSED AFFECTIONS
SUCH A STAUNCHLESS AVARICETHAT, WERE I KING,
I SHOULD CUT OFF THE NOBLESFOR THEIR LANDS,
DESIRE HIS JEWELS,THIS OTHER'S HOUSE,
AND MY MORE-HAVINGWOULD BE AS A SAUCE
TO MAKE ME HUNGER MORE,
THAT I SHOULD FORGEQUARRELS UNJUST
AGAINST THE GOOD AND LOYAL,DESTROYING THEM FOR WEALTH.
THIS AVARICE STICKS DEEPER,
GROWS WITH MORE PERNICIOUS ROOTTHAN SUMMER-SEEMING LUST,
AND IT HATH BEEN THE SWORDOF OUR SLAIN KINGS.
YET DO NOT FEAR.
SCOTLAND HATH FOISONSTO FILL UP YOUR WILL
OF YOUR MERE OWN.
ALL THESE ARE PORTABLE,WITH OTHER GRACES WEIGHED.
BUT I HAVE NONE.
THE KING-BECOMING GRACES--AS JUSTICE, VERITY,
TEMP'RANCE, STABLENESS,BOUNTY, PERSEVERANCE,
MERCY, LOWLINESS, DEVOTION,PATIENCE, COURAGE, FORTITUDE--
I HAVE NO RELISH OF THEM,
BUT ABOUND IN THE DIVISIONOF EACH SEVERAL CRIME,
ACTING IT MANY WAYS.
NAY, HAD I POWER,
I SHOULD POUR THE SWEET MILKOF CONCORD INTO HELL,
UPROAR THE UNIVERSAL PEACE,CONFOUND ALL UNITY ON EARTH.
OH, SCOTLAND, SCOTLAND.
IF SUCH A ONEBE FIT TO GOVERN, SPEAK.
I AM AS I HAVE SPOKEN.
FIT TO GOVERN?NO, NOT TO LIVE!
O NATION MISERABLE!
WITH AN UNTITLED TYRANTBLOODY-SCEPTRED,
WHEN SHALT THOU SEETHY WHOLESOME DAYS AGAIN,
SINCE THAT THE TRUEST ISSUEOF THY THRONE
BY HIS OWN INTERDICTIONSTANDS ACCUSED,
AND DOES BLASPHEMEHIS BREED?
THY ROYAL FATHERWAS A MOST SAINTED KING.
THE QUEEN THAT BORE THEE,
OFTENER UPON HER KNEESTHAN ON HER FEET,
DIED EVERY DAY SHE LIVED.
FARE THEE WELL.
THESE EVILS THATTHOU REPEAT'ST UPON THYSELF
HATH BANISHED MEFROM SCOTLAND!
OH, MY BREAST,THY HOPE ENDS HERE.
MACDUFF,THIS NOBLE PASSION,
CHILD OF INTEGRITY,
HATH FROM MY SOUL WIPEDTHE BLACK SCRUPLES,
RECONCILED MY THOUGHTSTO THY GOOD TRUTH AND HONOR.
DEVILISH MACBETHBY MANY OF THESE TRAINS
HAS SOUGHT TO WIN MEINTO HIS POWER,
AND MODEST WISDOM PLUCKS MEFROM OVERCREDULOUS HASTE.
BUT GOD ABOVE DEALBETWEEN THEE AND ME.
FOR EVEN NOW I PUT MYSELFTO THY DIRECTION,
AND UNSPEAKMINE OWN DETRACTION,
HERE ABJURE THE TAINTSAND BLAMES I LAID UPON MYSELF,
FOR STRANGERSTO MY NATURE.
I AM YET UNKNOWNTO WOMAN,
NEVER WAS FORSWORN,
SCARCELY HAVE COVETEDWHAT WAS MINE OWN,
AT NO TIME BROKE MY FAITH,
WOULD NOT BETRAY THE DEVILTO HIS FELLOW,
AND DELIGHT NO LESSIN TRUTH THAN LIFE.
MY FIRST FALSE SPEAKINGWAS THIS UPON MYSELF.
WHAT I AM TRULY IS THINE ANDMY POOR COUNTRY'S TO COMMAND,
WHITHER INDEED,BEFORE THY HERE-APPROACH,
GOOD SIWARD,
AND 10,000 WARLIKE MENALREADY AT A POINT,
WERE SETTING FORTH.
NOW WE'LL TOGETHER,
AND THE CHANCE OF GOODNESSBE LIKE OUR WARRANTED QUARREL.
WHY ARE YOU SILENT?
SUCH WELCOMEAND UNWELCOME THINGS AT ONCE...
'TIS HARD TO RECONCILE.
SEE WHO COMES HERE!
MY COUNTRYMAN,BUT YET I KNOW HIM NOT.
MY EVER GENTLE COUSIN,WELCOME HITHER.
I KNOW HIM NOW.
GOOD GOD BETIMESREMOVE THE MEANS
THAT MAKE USSTRANGERS.
SIR, AMEN.
STANDS SCOTLANDWHERE IT DID?
ALAS, POOR COUNTRY,ALMOST AFRAID TO KNOW ITSELF.
IT CANNOT BE CALLED OUR MOTHER,BUT OUR GRAVE,
WHERE NOTHINGBUT WHO KNOWS NOTHING
IS ONCE SEEN TO SMILE;
WHERE SIGHS, AND GROANSAND SHRIEKS THAT RENT THE AIR
ARE MADE, NOT MARKED;
WHERE VIOLENT SORROW SEEMSA MODERN ECSTASY.
THE DEAD MAN'S KNELLIS THERE SCARCE ASK'D FOR WHO,
AND GOOD MEN'S LIVES EXPIRE
BEFORE THE FLOWERSIN THEIR CAPS,
DYING OR ERE THEY SICKEN.
OH, RELATION.
TOO NICE,AND YET TOO TRUE.
WHAT'S THE NEWEST GRIEF?
THAT OF AN HOUR'S AGEDOTH HISS THE SPEAKER.
EACH MINUTE TEEMS A NEW ONE.
HOW DOES MY WIFE?
WELL.
AND ALL MY CHILDREN?
WELL TOO.
THE TYRANT HAS NOT BATTEREDAT THEIR PEACE?
NO, THEY WERE WELL AT PEACEWHEN I DID LEAVE 'EM,
BE NOT A NIGGARDOF YOUR SPEECH.
HOW GOES 'T?
WHEN I CAME HITHERTO TRANSPORT THE TIDINGS,
WHICH I HAVE HEAVILY BORNE,THERE RAN A RUMOR
OF MANY WORTHY FELLOWSTHAT WERE OUT,
WHICH WAS TO MY BELIEFWITNESSED THE RATHER,
FOR THAT I SAWTHE TYRANT'S POWER AFOOT.
NOW IS THE TIME OF HELP.
YOUR EYE IN SCOTLANDWOULD CREATE SOLDIERS,
MAKE OUR WOMEN FIGHTTO DOFF THEIR DIRE DISTRESSES.
BE 'T THEIR COMFORTWE ARE COMING THITHER.
GRACIOUS ENGLAND
HATH LENT US GOOD SIWARDAND 10,000 MEN,
AN OLDER ANDA BETTER SOLDIER NONE
THAT CHRISTENDOMGIVES OUT.
WOULD I COULD ANSWERTHIS COMFORT WITH THE LIKE.
BUT I HAVE WORDS
THAT WOULD BE HOWLED OUTIN THE DESERT AIR,
WHERE HEARINGSHOULD NOT LATCH THEM.
WHAT CONCERN THEY?
THE GENERAL CAUSE?
OR IS IT A FEE-GRIEFDUE TO SOME SINGLE BREAST?
NO MIND THAT'S HONESTBUT IN IT SHARES SOME WOE,
THOUGH THE MAIN PARTPERTAINS TO YOU ALONE.
IF IT BE MINE,KEEP IT NOT FROM ME.
QUICKLY LET ME HAVE IT.
LET NOT YOUR EARS DESPISEMY TONGUE FOREVER,
THAT SHALL POSSESS THEM
WITH THE HEAVIEST SOUNDTHAT EVER YET THEY HEARD.
HMM. I GUESS AT IT.
YOUR CASTLE IS SURPRISED,
YOUR WIFE AND BABESSAVAGELY SLAUGHTERED.
TO RELATE THE MANNER,WERE ON THE QUARRY
OF THESE MURDERED DEERTO ADD THE DEATH OF YOU.
MERCIFUL HEAVEN!
WHAT, MAN,
NE'ER PULL YOUR HATUPON YOUR BROWS.
GIVE SORROW WORDS.
THE GRIEF THATDOES NOT SPEAK
WHISPERS THE O'ER-FRAUGHT HEARTAND BIDS IT BREAK.
[whispering]My children too?
WIFE, CHILDREN,SERVANTS,
ALL THAT COULDBE FOUND.
AND I MUST BEFROM THENCE.
MY WIFE...
KILLED TOO?
I HAVE SAID.
BE COMFORTED.
LET'S MAKE US MEDICINESOF OUR GREAT REVENGE
TO CURETHIS DEADLY GRIEF.
HE HAS NO CHILDREN!
All...
my pretty ones?
Did you say...
all?
O hell-kite!
All?
What?
All my pretty chickens,and their dam,
at one fell swoop?
DISPUTE IT LIKE A MAN.
I SHALL DO SO.
BUT I MUST ALSO...
FEEL IT...
AS A MAN.
I CANNOT BUT REMEMBERSUCH THINGS WERE,
THAT WEREMOST PRECIOUS TO ME.
DID HEAVEN LOOK ON,
AND WOULD NOT TAKETHEIR PART?
SINFUL MACDUFF!
They were all struck for thee.
NAUGHT THAT I AM,NOT FOR THEIR OWN DEMERITS,
BUT FOR MINE,FELL SLAUGHTER ON THEIR SOULS!
HEAVEN, REST THEM NOW.
BE THIS THE WHETSTONEOF YOUR SWORD.
LET GRIEF CONVERTTO ANGER.
BLUNT NOT THE HEART;ENRAGE IT.
I COULD PLAY THE WOMANWITH MINE EYES
AND BRAGGARTWITH MY TONGUE!
BUT GENTLE HEAVENS!
CUT SHORTALL INTERMISSION.
FRONT TO FRONT, BRING THOU THISFIEND OF SCOTLAND AND MYSELF!
WITHIN MY SWORD'S LENGTHSET HIM.
IF HE 'SCAPE,
HEAVEN...
FORGIVE HIM TOO!
THIS TUNEGOES MANLY.
COME.
GO WE TO THE KING.
OUR POWER IS READY;
OUR LACK IS NOTHINGBUT OUR LEAVE.
MACBETH IS RIGHTFOR SHAKING,
AND THE POWERS ABOVEPUT ON THEIR INSTRUMENTS.
RECEIVE WHAT CHEERYOU MAY,
THE NIGHT IS LONGTHAT NEVER FINDS THE DAY.
[drums beating cadence]
I HAVE TWO NIGHTSWATCHED WITH YOU,
BUT CAN PERCEIVE NO TRUTHIN YOUR REPORT.
WHEN WAS ITSHE LAST WALKED?
SINCE HIS MAJESTYWENT INTO THE FIELD,
I HAVE SEEN HER RISEFROM HER BED,
THROW HER NIGHTGOWNUPON HER,
UNLOCK HER CLOSET,TAKE FORTH PAPER,
FOLD IT,WRITE UPON IT,
READ IT,
AFTERWARDS SEAL IT,AND AGAIN RETURN TO BED.
YET ALL THIS WHILEIN A MOST FAST SLEEP.
A GREAT PERTURBATIONIN NATURE,
TO RECEIVE AT ONCETHE BENEFIT OF SLEEP,
AND DO THE EFFECTSOF WATCHING.
IN THIS SLUMBERY AGITATION,
BESIDES HER WALKINGAND OTHER ACTUAL PERFORMANCES,
WHAT, AT ANY TIME,HAVE YOU HEARD HER SAY?
THAT, SIR, WHICH I WILL NOTREPORT AFTER HER.
YOU MAY TO ME,
AND 'TIS MOST MEETYOU SHOULD.
NEITHER TO YOUNOR ANYONE,
HAVING NO WITNESSTO CONFIRM MY SPEECH.
Lo you,here she comes.
THIS ISHER VERY GUISE,
AND, UPON MY LIFE,FAST ASLEEP.
HOW CAME SHEBY THAT LIGHT?
WHY, IT STOOD BY HER;
SHE HAS LIGHTBY HER CONTINUALLY.
'TIS HER COMMAND.
YOU SEE?HER EYES ARE OPEN!
AYE, BUT THEIR SENSEIS SHUT.
WHAT IS ITSHE DOES NOW?
SHH.
LOOK HOWSHE RUBS HER HANDS.
IT IS AN ACCUSTOMED ACTIONWITH HER
TO BE SEEN THUSWASHING HER HANDS.
I HAVE KNOWN HERCONTINUE IN THIS
A QUARTER OF AN HOUR.
YET HERE'S A SPOT.
HARK, SHE SPEAKS.
OUT, DAMNED SPOT.
[crying]OUT, I SAY.
ONE...
TWO...
WHY, THEN'TIS TIME TO DO IT.
HELL IS MURKY.
FIE, MY LORD, FIE!
A SOLDIER, AND AFEARD?
WHAT NEED WE FEARWHO KNOWS IT,
WHEN NONE CAN CALLOUR POWER TO ACCOUNT?
YET WHO WOULD HAVE THOUGHT
THE OLD MAN TO HAVE HADSO MUCH BLOOD IN HIM?
DO YOU MARK THAT?
THE THANE OF FIFEHAD A WIFE.
WHERE IS SHE NOW?
WHAT, WILL THESE HANDSNE'ER BE CLEAN?
NO MORE O' THAT, MY LORD.NO MORE O' THAT.
YOU MAR ALLWITH THIS STARTING.
GO TO!  GO TO!
YOU HAVE KNOWN WHAT YOU SHOULD NOT.
SHE HAS SPOKEWHAT SHE SHOULD NOT;
I AM SURE OF THAT.
HEAVEN KNOWSWHAT SHE HAS KNOWN.
[gasps]
YET!
HERE'S THE SMELLOF THE BLOOD STILL.
[breathing heavily]
ALL THE PERFUMES OF ARABIA WILLNOT SWEETEN THIS LITTLE HAND.
[sniffing]
[crying]
WHAT A SIGH IS THERE!
THE HEARTIS SORELY CHARGED.
I WOULD NOT HAVE SUCHA HEART IN MY BOSOM
FOR THE DIGNITYOF THE WHOLE BODY.
WELL, WELL, WELL--
PRAY GOD IT BE, SIR.
[gasps]
THIS DISEASEIS BEYOND MY PRACTICE.
YET I HAVE KNOWN THOSE
WHICH HAVE WALKEDIN THEIR SLEEP
WHO HAVE DIED HOLILYIN THEIR BEDS.
WASH YOUR HANDS.
PUT ON YOUR NIGHTGOWN.
LOOK NOT SO PALE.
I TELL YOU YET AGAIN,BANQUO'S BURIED;
HE CANNOT COME OUTON 'S GRAVE!
EVEN SO?
[whispers]To bed, to bed.
THERE'S KNOCKINGAT THE GATE; COME.
COME!
COME!  COME!
GIVE ME YOUR HAND.
WHAT'S DONECANNOT BE UNDONE.
TO BED!  TO BED!
TO BED!
[grunting]
WILL SHE GO NOW TO BED?
DIRECTLY.
FOUL WHISPERINGSARE ABROAD.
UNNATURAL DEEDSDO BREED UNNATURAL TROUBLES.
INFECTED MINDSTO THEIR DEAF PILLOWS
WILL DISCHARGETHEIR SECRETS.
MORE NEEDS SHE THE DIVINETHAN THE PHYSICIAN.
GOD--GOD FORGIVE US ALL.
LOOK AFTER HER.
REMOVE FROM HERTHE MEANS OF ALL ANNOYANCE,
AND STILL KEEP EYESUPON HER.
SO GOOD NIGHT.
GOOD NIGHT,GOOD DOCTOR.
MY MIND SHE HAS MATEDAND AMAZED MY SIGHT.
I THINK,BUT DARE NOT SPEAK.
(Menteith) THE ENGLISH POWER IS NEAR,
LED ON BY MALCOLM,
HIS UNCLE SIWARD,AND THE GOOD MACDUFF.
REVENGES BURN IN THEM;
FOR THEIR DEAR CAUSESWOULD TO THE BLEEDING
AND THE GRIM ALARM EXCITETHE MORTIFIED MAN.
NEAR BIRNAM WOODSHALL WE MEET THEM.
THAT WAYARE THEY COMING.
WHO KNOWS IF DONALBAINBE WITH HIS BROTHER?
FOR CERTAIN,SIR, HE'S NOT.
I HAVE A FILEOF ALL THE GENTRY.
THERE IS SIWARD'S SON,AND MANY UNROUGH YOUTHS
THAT EVEN NOW PROTESTTHEIR FIRST OF MANHOOD.
WHAT DOES THE TYRANT?
GREAT DUNSINANEHE STRONGLY FORTIFIES.
SOME SAY HE'S MAD.
OTHERS THAT LESSER HATE HIMDO CALL IT VALIANT FURY.
BUT FOR CERTAIN
HE CANNOT BUCKLEHIS DISTEMPERED CAUSE
WITHIN THE BELTOF RULE.
NOW DOES HE FEEL HIS SECRETMURDERS STICKING ON HIS HANDS.
NOW MINUTELY REVOLTS UPBRAIDHIS FAITH BREACH.
THOSE HE COMMANDS MOVE ONLYIN COMMAND, NOTHING IN LOVE.
NOW DOES HE FEEL HIS TITLEHANG LOOSE ABOUT HIM,
LIKE A GIANT'S ROBEUPON A DWARFISH THIEF.
[men chuckling]
WHO THEN SHALL BLAMEHIS PESTERED SENSES
TO RECOIL AND START,WHEN ALL THAT IS WITHIN HIM
DOES CONDEMN ITSELFFOR BEING THERE?
WELL, MARCH WE ON,
TO GIVE OBEDIENCEWHERE 'TIS TRULY OWED.
MEET WE THE MEDICINEOF THE SICKLY WEAL,
AND WITH HIM POUR WE,IN OUR COUNTRY'S PURGE,
EACH DROP OF US.
OR SO MUCH AS IT NEEDSTO DEW THE SOVEREIGN FLOWER
AND DROWN THE WEEDS.
MAKE WE OUR MARCHTOWARDS BIRNAM.
BRING MENO MORE REPORTS.
LET THEM FLY, ALL.
TILL BIRNAM WOOD REMOVETO DUNSINANE,
I CANNOT TAINT WITH FEAR.
WHAT'S THE BOY MALCOLM?
WAS HE NOT BORN OF WOMAN?
THE SPIRITS THAT KNOWALL MORTAL CONSEQUENCES
HAVE PRONOUNCED ME THUS:
"FEAR NOT, MACBETH;NO MAN THAT'S BORN OF WOMAN
SHALL E'ERHAVE POWER UPON THEE."
THEN FLY, FALSE THANES,
AND MINGLEWITH THE ENGLISH EPICURES.
THE MIND I SWAY BYAND THE HEART I BEAR
SHALL NEVER SAG WITH DOUBTNOR SHAKE WITH FEAR.
THE DEVIL DAMN THEE BLACK,THOU CREAM-FACED LOON.
WHERE GOT'ST THOUTHAT GOOSE LOOK?
THERE ARE 10,000--
GEESE, VILLAIN?
SOLDIERS, SIR.
GO PRICK THY FACEAND OVERRED THY FEAR,
THOU LILY-LIVERED BOY.
WHAT SOLDIERS, PATCH?
DEATH OF THY SOUL.
THOSE LINEN CHEEKS OF THINEARE COUNSELORS TO FEAR.
WHAT SOLDIERS,
WHEYFACE?
THE ENGLISH FORCE, SIR.
TAKE THY FACE HENCE!
SEYTON!
I AM ALMOST SICK AT HEART,WHEN I BEHOLD--
SEYTON, I SAY!
THIS PUSHWILL CHEER ME EVER...
OR DISSEAT ME NOW.
I HAVE LIVED LONG ENOUGH.
MY WAY OF LIFEIS FALL'N INTO THE SEAR,
THE YELLOW LEAF;
AND THAT WHICH SHOULDACCOMPANY OLD AGE,
AS HONOR, LOVE, OBEDIENCE,TROOPS OF FRIENDS,
I MUST NOT LOOK TO HAVE,
BUT IN THEIR STEAD CURSES,NOT LOUD BUT DEEP,
MOUTH-HONOR, BREATH,
WOULD FAIN DENY AND DARE NOT.
SEYTON!
WHAT'S YOURGRACIOUS PLEASURE?
WHAT NEWS MORE?
ALL IS CONFIRMED, MY LORD,WHICH WAS REPORTED.
I'LL FIGHT...
TILL FROM MY BONESMY FLESH BE HACKED.
BRING ME MY ARMOR.
'TIS NOT NEEDED YET.
I'LL PUT IT ON.SEND OUT MORE HORSES.
SKIRR THE COUNTRY ROUND.
HANG THOSETHAT TALK OF FEAR!
BRING ME MY ARMOR!
HOW DOES YOUR PATIENT,DOCTOR?
NOT SO SICK, MY LORD,AS SHE IS TROUBLED
WITH THICK-COMING FANCIESTHAT KEEP HER FROM HER REST.
CURE HER OF THAT.
CANST THOU NOT MINISTERTO A MIND DISEASED,
PLUCK FROM THE MEMORYA ROOTED SORROW,
RAZE OUT THE WRITTEN TROUBLESOF THE BRAIN,
AND WITH SOME SWEETOBLIVIOUS ANTIDOTE
CLEANSE THE STUFFED BOSOM
OF THAT PERILOUS STUFFWHICH WEIGHS UPON THE HEART?
THEREIN THE PATIENTMUST MINISTER TO HIMSELF.
THROW PHYSIC TO THE DOGS!I'LL NONE OF IT!
COME, PUT MINE ARMOR ON.
SEYTON, SEND OUT.
DOCTOR, THE THANESFLY FROM ME.
COME, SIR!  DISPATCH!
IF THOU COULDST, DOCTOR,CAST THE WATER OF MY LAND,
FIND HER DISEASE
AND PURGE IT TO A SOUNDAND PRISTINE HEALTH,
I WOULD APPLAUD THEETO THE VERY ECHO,
THAT SHOULD APPLAUD AGAIN!
PULL IT OFF, I SAY!
WHAT RHUBARB, SENNA,OR WHAT PURGATIVE DRUG
WOULD SCOURTHESE ENGLISH HENCE?
HEAR'ST THOU OF THEM?
AYE, MY GOOD LORD.
YOUR ROYAL PREPARATIONSMAKE US HEAR SOMETHING.
BRING IT AFTER ME.
I WILL NOT BE AFRAIDOF DEATH AND BANE
TILL BIRNAM FORESTCOME TO DUNSINANE.
WERE I FROM DUNSINANEAWAY AND CLEAR,
PROFIT AGAINSHOULD HARDLY DRAW ME HERE.
COUSINS, I HOPETHE DAYS ARE NEAR AT HAND
THAT CHAMBERS WILL BE SAFE.
(Menteith)WE DOUBT IT NOTHING.
WHAT WOOD IS THISBEFORE US?
THE WOOD OF BIRNAM.
LET EVERY SOLDIERHEW HIM DOWN A BOUGH,
AND BEAR IT BEFORE HIM.
THEREBY SHALL WE SHADOWTHE NUMBERS OF OUR HOST,
AND MAKE DISCOVERY ERRIN REPORT OF US.
IT SHALL BE DONE.
WE LEARN NO OTHERBUT THE CONFIDENT TYRANT
KEEPS STILLIN DUNSINANE,
AND WILL ENDUREOUR SETTING DOWN BEFORE 'T.
'TIS HIS MAIN HOPE.
FOR WHERE THERE ISADVANTAGE TO BE GIVEN,
BOTH MORE AND LESS
HAVE GIVEN HIM THE REVOLT,AND NONE SERVE WITH HIM
BUT CONSTRAINED THINGSWHOSE HEARTS ARE ABSENT TOO.
LET OUR JUST CENSURESATTEND THE TRUE EVENT,
AND PUT WE ONINDUSTRIOUS SOLDIERSHIP!
(Siward)THE TIME APPROACHESTHAT WILL WITH DUE DECISION
MAKE US KNOWWHAT WE SHALL SAY WE HAVE
AND WHAT WE OWE.
THOUGHTS SPECULATIVETHEIR UNSURE HOPES RELATE,
BUT CERTAIN ISSUESTROKES MUST ARBITRATE.
TOWARD WHICHADVANCE THE WAR.
HANG OUT OUR BANNERSON THE OUTWARD WALLS!
THE CRY IS STILL,"THEY COME."
OUR CASTLE'S STRENGTHWILL LAUGH A SIEGE TO SCORN.
HERE LET THEM LIE TILL FAMINEAND THE AGUE EAT THEM UP.
WERE THEY NOT FORCEDWITH THOSE THAT SHOULD BE OURS,
WE MIGHT HAVEMET THEM DAREFUL,
BEARD TO BEARD,
AND BEAT THEMBACKWARD HOME.
[woman wailing]
WHAT IS THAT NOISE?
IT IS THE CRY OF WOMEN,MY GOOD LORD.
I HAVE ALMOST FORGOTTHE TASTE OF FEARS.
THE TIME HAS BEEN
MY SENSES WOULD HAVE COOLEDTO HEAR A NIGHT SHRIEK,
AND MY FELL OF HAIRWOULD AT A DISMAL TREATISE
ROUSE AND STIRAS LIFE WERE IN IT.
I HAVE SUPPED FULLWITH HORRORS.
DIRENESS, FAMILIARTO MY SLAUGHTEROUS THOUGHTS,
CANNOT ONCE START ME.
WHEREFORE WAS THAT CRY?
THE QUEEN, MY LORD,IS DEAD.
SHE SHOULD HAVE DIED HEREAFTER.
THERE WOULD HAVE BEEN A TIMEFOR SUCH A WORD.
TOMORROW--
AND TOMORROW...
CREEPS IN THIS PETTY PACEFROM DAY TO DAY,
TO THE LAST SYLLABLEOF RECORDED TIME,
AND ALL OUR YESTERDAYSHAVE LIGHTED FOOLS
THE WAY TO DUSTY DEATH.
OUT, OUT, BRIEF CANDLE.
[scoffs]
LIFE'S BUT A WALKING SHADOW,
A POOR PLAYER THAT STRUTS ANDFRETS HIS HOUR UPON THE STAGE
AND THEN IS HEARD NO MORE.
IT IS A TALE TOLD BY AN IDIOT.
IT IS FULL OF SOUND AND FURY,SIGNIFYING...
NOTHING.
THY COMEST TO USE THY TONGUE.
THY STORY QUICKLY.
GRACIOUS MY LORD,
I SHOULD REPORT THATWHICH I SAY I SAW,
BUT KNOW NOT HOWTO DO IT.
WELL, SAY, SIR.
AS I STOOD MY WATCHUPON THE HILL,
I LOOKED TOWARD BIRNAM,AND ANON,
METHOUGHT THE WOODBEGAN TO MOVE.
LIAR!
AND SLAVE!
LET ME ENDURE YOUR WRATHIF IT BE NOT SO.
WITHIN THIS THREE MILEMAY YOU SEE IT COMING,
I SAY, A MOVING GROVE.
IF THOU SPEAK'ST FALSE,
UPON THE NEXT TREESHALT THOU HANG ALIVE
TILL FAMINE CLING THEE!
IF THY SPEECH BE SOOTH,
I CARE NOT IF THOUDOST FOR ME AS MUCH.
I PULL IN RESOLUTION,
AND BEGIN TO DOUBTTHE EQUIVOCATION OF THE FIEND
THAT LIES LIKE TRUTH.
"FEAR NOT, TILL BIRNAM WOODDO COME TO DUNSINANE."
AND NOW A WOOD COMESTOWARD DUNSINANE.
ARM.
ARM!  AND OUT!
IF THIS WHICH HE AVOUCHESDOES APPEAR,
THERE IS NOR FLYING HENCENOR TARRYING HERE.
I 'GIN TO BE AWEARY O' THE SUN,
AND WISH THE ESTATE O' THE WORLDWERE NOW UNDONE.
RING THE ALARUM BELL!
BLOW, WIND!
COME, WRACK!
AT LEAST WE'LL DIEWITH HARNESS ON OUR BACK!
[dramatic march music]
NOW NEAR ENOUGH.
YOUR LEAFY SCREENS THROW DOWN,AND SHOW LIKE THOSE YOU ARE.
YOU, WORTHY UNCLE,SHALL, WITH MY COUSIN,
YOUR RIGHT NOBLE SON,LEAD OUR FIRST BATTLE.
WORTHY MACDUFF AND WE WILL TAKEUPON 'S WHAT ELSE REMAINS TO DO,
ACCORDING TO OUR ORDER.
FARE YOU WELL.
DO WE BUT FINDTHE TYRANT'S POWER TONIGHT,
LET US BE BEATENIF WE CANNOT FIGHT.
MAKE ALLOUR TRUMPETS SPEAK!
[trumpets signaling]
GIVE THEM ALL BREATH,
THOSE CLAMOROUS HARBINGERSOF BLOOD AND DEATH.
THEY HAVE TIED ME TO A STAKE;I CANNOT FLY,
BUT BEARLIKE,I MUST FIGHT THE COURSE.
WHAT IS HE THATWAS NOT BORN OF WOMAN?
[chuckles]
SUCH A ONE AM I TO FEAR,OR NONE.
WHAT IS THY NAME?
THOU'LT BE AFRAIDTO HEAR IT.
NO,
THOUGH THOU CALL'STTHYSELF A HOTTER NAME
THAN ANY IS IN HELL.
MY NAME'S MACBETH.
[exhales]
THE DEVIL HIMSELFCOULD NOT PRONOUNCE
A TITLE MORE HATEFULTO MINE EAR.
NO.
NOR MORE FEARFUL.
THOU LIEST,ABHORRED TYRANT.
WITH MY SWORD I'LL PROVETHE LIE THOU SPEAK'ST.
[thunder rumbling]
[grunts]
[cries]
THOU WAST BORN OF WOMAN.
BUT SWORDS I SMILE AT,WEAPONS LAUGH TO SCORN,
BRANDISHED BY MANTHAT'S OF A WOMAN BORN.
[suspensful music accelerates]
TYRANT!
SHOW THY FACE!
IF THOU BE'ST SLAINAND WITH NO STROKE OF MINE,
MY WIFE AND CHILDREN'S GHOSTSWILL HAUNT ME STILL.
EITHER THOU, MACBETH,OR ELSE MY SWORD,
WITH AN UNBATTERED EDGE,I SHEATH AGAIN UNDEEDED.
LET ME FIND HIM, FORTUNE.
AND MORE I BEG NOT.
WHY SHOULD I PLAY THE ROMAN FOOLAND DIE ON MINE OWN SWORD?
WHILES I SEE LIVES,THE GASHES DO BETTER UPON THEM.
(Macduff)TURN,
HELLHOUND.
TURN!
OF ALL MEN ELSEI HAVE AVOIDED THEE.
BUT GET THEE BACK.
MY SOUL IS TOO MUCH CHARGEDWITH BLOOD OF THINE ALREADY.
I HAVE NO WORDS.
MY VOICE IS IN MY SWORD.
THOU BLOODIER VILLAINTHAN TERMS CAN GIVE THEE OUT!
THOU LOSEST LABOR.
AS WELL MAYST THOUTHE INTRENCHANT AIR
WITH THY KEEN BLADE IMPRESSAS MAKE ME BLEED.
I BEAR A CHARMED LIFE,
WHICH MUST NOT YIELDTO ONE OF WOMAN BORN.
DESPAIR THY CHARM,
AND LET THE ANGELWHOM THOU STILL HAST SERVED
TELL THEE
MACDUFF WASFROM HIS MOTHER'S WOMB
UNTIMELY RIPPED!
[scoffs]
[sighs]
ACCURSED BE THE TONGUETHAT TELLS ME SO,
FOR IT HATH COWEDMY BETTER PART OF MAN.
AND BE THESE JUGGLING FIENDSNO MORE BELIEVED...
THAT PALTER WITH USIN A DOUBLE SENSE,
THAT KEEP THE WORD OF PROMISETO OUR EAR
AND BREAK IT TO OUR HOPE.
[shudders]
I'LL NOT FIGHT WITH THEE.
THEN YIELD THEE, COWARD!
AND LIVE TO BE THE SHOWAND GAZE OF THE TIME.
WE'LL HAVE THEE,AS OUR RARER MONSTERS ARE,
PAINTED UPON A POLE, AND UNDERWRIT,
"HERE MAY YOU SEE THE TYRANT."
I WILL NOT YIELD
TO KISS THE GROUNDBEFORE YOUNG MALCOLM'S FEET
AND TO BE BAITEDWITH THE RABBLE'S CURSE.
THOUGH BIRNAM WOODBE COME TO DUNSINANE,
AND THOU OPPOSED,BEING OF NO WOMAN BORN,
YET I WILL TRY THE LAST!
BEFORE MY BODYI THROW MY WARLIKE SHIELD.
LAY ON, MACDUFF,
AND DAMNED BE HIMTHAT FIRST CRIES,
"HOLD, ENOUGH!"
THIS WAY, MY LORD.
THE CASTLE'S GENTLY RENDERED.
THE DAY ALMOST ITSELFPROFESSES YOURS,
AND LITTLE IS TO DO.
I WOULD THE FRIENDS WE MISSWERE SAFE ARRIVED.
SOME MUST GO OFF.
AND YET, BY THESE I SEE,
SO GREAT A DAYAS THIS IS CHEAPLY BOUGHT.
MACDUFF IS MISSING,AND YOUR NOBLE SON.
YOUR SON, MY LORD,HATH PAID A SOLDIER'S DEBT.
HE ONLY LIVEDBUT TILL HE WAS A MAN,
THE WHICH NO SOONERHAD HIS PROWESS CONFIRMED
IN THE UNSHRINKING STATIONWHERE HE FOUGHT
BUT LIKE A MAN HE DIED.
THEN HE IS DEAD.
YOUR CAUSE OF SORROW MUST NOTBE MEASURED BY HIS WORTH,
FOR THEN IT HATH NO END.
HAD HE HIS HURTS BEFORE?
AYE, ON THE FRONT.
WHY THEN,GOD'S SOLDIER BE HE.
HAD I AS MANY SONSAS I HAVE HAIRS,
I WOULD NOT WISH THEMTO A FAIRER DEATH.
AND SO HIS KNELL IS KNOLLED.
(Malcolm)HE'S WORTH MORE SORROW,
AND THATI'LL SPEND FOR HIM.
HE'S WORTH NO MORE.
THEY SAY HE PARTED WELLAND PAID HIS SCORE.
AND SO GOD BE WITH HIM.
HAIL, KING.
FOR SO THOU ART.
THE TIME IS FREE.
I SEE THEE COMPASSEDWITH THY KINGDOM'S PEARL,
WHO SPEAK MY SALUTATIONIN THEIR MINDS,
WHOSE VOICES I DESIREALOUD WITH MINE:
HAIL, KING OF SCOTLAND.
(all)HAIL, KING OF SCOTLAND!
WE SHALL NOT SPENDA LARGE EXPENSE OF TIME
BEFORE WE RECKONWITH YOUR SEVERAL LOVES,
AND MAKE US EVEN WITH YOU.
MY THANES AND KINSMEN,HENCEFORTH BE EARLS,
THE FIRST THAT EVER SCOTLANDIN SUCH AN HONOR NAMED.
WHAT'S MORE TO DO, AS WOULD BENEWLY PLANTED WITH THE TIME,
AS CALLING HOMEOUR EXILED FRIENDS ABROAD
THAT FLED THE SNARESOF WATCHFUL TYRANNY,
PRODUCING FORTH THE CRUELMINISTERS OF THIS DEAD BUTCHER
AND HIS FIENDLIKE QUEEN,WHO, AS 'TIS THOUGHT,
BY SELF AND VIOLENT HANDSTOOK OFF HER LIFE.
THIS, AND WHAT NEEDFUL ELSETHAT CALLS UPON US,
BY THE GRACE OF GRACE
WE WILL PERFORM IN MEASURE,TIME, AND PLACE.
SO THANKS TO ALL AT ONCE...
AND TO EACH ONE, WHOM WE INVITETO SEE US CROWNED AT SCONE.
(male announcer)THE MATERIALON THIS VIDEOCASSETTE
IS PROTECTED BY COPYRIGHT.
IT IS FOR PRIVATE USE ONLY,
AND ANY OTHER USE,INCLUDING COPYING, REPRODUCING,
OR PERFORMANCE IN PUBLIC,IN WHOLE OR IN PART,
IS PROHIBITED BY LAW.